                              Independent Health Member Claim Form

For medical claims, mail completed form together with all itemized bills to
Independent Health Claims Department, P.O. Box 9066, Buffalo, NY 14231
For pharmacy claims, mail completed form together with all itemized bills to
Independent Health, Attn: Pharmacy Claims, P.O. Box 9066, Buffalo, NY 14231

 Member Last Name              First Name                              ID No. with 2 digit suffix     Group No.


 Address No. and Street                 City                                        State             Zip Code


 Member Date of Birth - MM/DD/YYYY                Patient Relationship to Subscriber                  Sex
                                                     self         spouse          child                 M        F
 Were services related to an accidental injury?     If yes, complete                                Date of accident
   Yes      No                                         work     auto       motorcycle       other
 Name of other insurance company                            Policy #


• If the claim is for someone other than you, please submit the Assignment of Representative (AOR) Form.*
• For services not rendered in the USA, all information must be translated in English.
• Independent Health will reimburse the provider if the provider is participating with Independent Health.

Provider Information (please contact the provider for the following information)

 Provider Full Name


 Provider Address


 Provider Phone #


 Provider NPI #


 Provider Tax ID # (TIN)


 Reason for Visit


 Date of Service


 Expected Reimbursement
  Proof of Payment is Required
    check       cash         credit/debit card              money order            wire transfer

  Do You Have Travel Insurance?
   Yes      No      If yes, please provide carrier name/contact number:

Failure to submit original invoices will result in a denial of the claim. Any missing information will cause a delay
in processing.

   • Original itemized receipts, including all pertinent information, must be submitted with this claim form.
   • Itemized bills are required and MUST indicate all of the following information:
         – Member’s full name and address on the provider’s letterhead
         – Diagnosis or description of illness or injury
         – Type of service or supply that was performed / provided
         – Place of service (e.g., office visit, inpatient hospital, outpatient hospital, emergency room,
           urgent care, office, laboratory, dental or pharmacy)
         – Date of service
         – Billed charge for each service
         – Total amount paid
   • Make copies of the original receipts for your files before submitting


AFFIRMATION: I hereby affirm that the above statements and information on the enclosed bills/receipts are
complete and accurate to the best of my knowledge. I also agree to reimburse Independent Health to the
extent of any overpayment which is in excess of the amounts payable under my contract/rider(s). In addition,
I hereby authorize Independent Health to obtain any information which may be necessary to determine
benefits. A photocopy of this authorization will be valid.


Signature                                                                                          Date

All claims will be processed according to the terms, conditions and exclusions of your contract.
If you have any questions about this form, please call our Member Services Department at (716) 631-8701
or 1-800-501-3439, Monday - Friday, 8 a.m. - 8 p.m.
You can also submit your completed claim form electronically to Independent Health at
memberservice@servicing.independenthealth.com.
For Medicare: Call (716) 250-4401 or 1-800-665-1502 (TTY: 711), October 1 - March 31:
Monday - Sunday, 8 a.m. - 8 p.m.; April 1 - September 30: Monday - Friday, 8 a.m. - 8 p.m.
You can also submit your completed claim form electronically to Independent Health at
medicareservice@servicing.independenthealth.com.
Any person who knowingly and with intent to defraud any insurance company or other person files an
application for insurance or statement of claim containing any materially false information, or conceals for the
purpose of misleading, information concerning any fact material thereto, commits a fraudulent insurance act,
which is a crime, and shall also be subject to a civil penalty not to exceed five thousand dollars and the stated
value of the claim for each such violation.
*Applies to Medicare Advantage plan members only.
Independent Health is a Medicare Advantage organization with a Medicare contract offering HMO, HMO-SNP,
HMO-POS and PPO plans. Enrollment in Independent Health depends on contract renewal.
Y0042_C5957_1 FYI                                                                                                      IH27170
