Pediatric Dental
Claim Form
Harvard Pilgrim members whose benefits include Pediatric Dental coverage can use this form to seek
reimbursement for care incurred outside the network.

To the member
    1. Work with your dentist to fill out all sections of the claim form, including having
       your provider sign the form
    2. You must also sign the form in boxes 36 and 37
    3. Mail the form to:
        Claims – Harvard Pilgrim Health Care
        P.O. Box 30567
        Salt Lake City, UT 84130-0567




Commonly Asked Question
How can I tell if I have pediatric dental benefits?
You can check your plan documents or contact Member Services
to confirm your plan includes pediatric dental coverage. If your
plan does include this benefit, you will receive a specific Pediatric
Dental ID card (pictured at right).


Who can I call with questions?
If you have questions about your coverage or about submitting claims, please call the Member Services
department at 800-460-0315 or call the number on the back of your ID card.


How long does it take to process my claim?
Nearly all dental claims are processed within 30 business days of when they are received. Failing to
include all required information could significantly delay the payment of your claim.
Comprehensive completion instructions for the ADA Dental Claim Form are found in Section 4 of the ADA Publication titled CDT-2007/2008.
Five relevant extracts from that section follow:
GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS
   A. The form is designed so that the name and address (Item 3) of the third-party payer receiving the claim (insurance company/dental
       benefit plan) is visible in a standard #10 window envelope. Please fold the form using the ‘tick-marks’ printed in the margin.
   B. In the upper-right of the form, a blank space is provided for the convenience of the payer or insurance company, to allow the
      assignment of a claim or control number.
   C. All Items in the form must be completed unless it is noted on the form or in the following instructions that completion is not required.
   D. When a name and address field is required, the full name of an individual or a full business name, address and zip code must be entered.
   E. All dates must include the four-digit year.
   F. If the number of procedures reported exceeds the number of lines available on one claim form, the remaining procedures must be
      listed on a separate, fully completed claim form.
COORDINATION OF BENEFITS (COB)
When a claim is being submitted to the secondary payer, complete the form in its entirety and attach the primary payer’s Explanation of Benefits
(EOB) showing the amount paid by the primary payer. You may indicate the amount the primary carrier paid in the “Remarks” field (Item # 35).
NATIONAL PROVIDER IDENTIFIER (NPI)
49 and 54 NPI (National Provider Identifier): This is an identifier assigned by the Federal government to all providers considered to be
          HIPAA covered entities. Dentists who are not covered entities may elect to obtain an NPI at their discretion, or may be
          enumerated if required by a participating provider agreement with a third-party payer or applicable state law/regulation. An NPI
          is unique to an individual dentist (Type 1 NPI) or dental entity (Type 2 NPI), and has no intrinsic meaning. Additional information
          on NPI and enumeration can be obtained from the ADA’s Web Site: www.ada.org/goto/npi
ADDITIONAL PROVIDER IDENTIFIER
52A and 58 Additional Provider ID: This is an identifier assigned to the billing dentist or dental entity other than a Social Security
           Number (SSN) or Tax Identification Number (TIN). It is not the provider’s NPI. The additional identifier is sometimes referred
           to as a Legacy Identifier (LID). LIDs may not be unique as they are assigned by different entities (e.g., third-party payer; Federal
           government). Some Legacy IDs have an intrinsic meaning.
PROVIDER SPECIALTY CODES
    56A Provider Specialty Code: Enter the code that indicates the type of dental professional who delivered the treatment. Available
         codes describing treating dentists are listed below. The general code listed as ‘Dentist’ may be used instead of any other dental
         practitioner code.

                                                Category / Description Code                                     Code
                     Dentist
                               A dentist is a person qualified by a doctorate in dental surgery (D.D.S)   122300000X
                               or dental medicine (D.M.D.) licensed by the state to practice dentistry,
                               and practicing within the scope of that license.
                     General Practice                                                                     1223G0001X
                     Dental Specialty (see following list)                                                  Various
                                             Dental Public Health                                         1223D0001X
                                             Endodontics                                                  1223E0200X
                                             Orthodontics                                                 1223X0400X
                                             Pediatric Dentistry                                          1223P0221X
                                             Periodontics                                                 1223P0300X
                                             Prosthodontics                                               1223P0700X
                                             Oral & Maxillofacial Pathology                               1223P0106X
                                             Oral & Maxillofacial Radiology                               1223D0008X
                                             Oral & Maxillofacial Surgery                                 1223S0112X
             Dental provider taxonomy codes listed above are a subset of the full code set that is posted at:
             www.wpc-edi.com/codes/taxonomy

   Should there be any updates to ADA Dental Claim Form completion instructions, the updates will be posted on the ADA’s web site at:
                                                   www.ada.org/goto/dentalcode
                  Dental Claim Form
        HEADER INFORMATION
        1. Type of Transaction (Mark all applicable boxes)

               Statement of Actual Services                     Request for Predetermination / Preauthorization

               EPSDT/ Title XIX
        2. Predetermination / Preauthorization Number                                                                                  POLICYHOLDER/SUBSCRIBER INFORMATION (For Insurance Company Named in #3)
                                                                                                                                       12. Policyholder/Subscriber Name (Last, First, Middle Initial, Suffix), Address, City, State, Zip Code

        INSURANCE COMPANY/DENTAL BENEFIT PLAN INFORMATION
       3. Company/Plan Name, Address, City, State, Zip Code




                                                                                                                                       13. Date of Birth (MM/DD/CCYY)                   14. Gender             15. Policyholder/Subscriber ID (SSN or ID#)
                                                                                                                                                                                               M         F

        OTHER COVERAGE                                                                                                                 16. Plan/Group Number                        17. Employer Name
        4. Other Dental or Medical Coverage?                No (Skip 5-11)                       Yes (Complete 5-11)

        5. Name of Policyholder/Subscriber in #4 (Last, First, Middle Initial, Suffix)                                                 PATIENT INFORMATION
                                                                                                                                       18. Relationship to Policyholder/Subscriber in #12 Above                                     19. Student Status
fold




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         fold
        6. Date of Birth (MM/DD/CCYY)              7. Gender                    8. Policyholder/Subscriber ID (SSN or ID#)                        Self         Spouse                 Dependent Child              Other                    FTS              PTS
                                                        M            F                                                                 20. Name (Last, First, Middle Initial, Suffix), Address, City, State, Zip Code

        9. Plan/Group Number                       10. Patient’ s Relationship to Person Named in #5

                                                         Self                 Spouse             Dependent               Other
        11. Other Insurance Company/Dental Benefit Plan Name, Address, City, State, Zip Code



                                                                                                                                       21. Date of Birth (MM/DD/CCYY)                   22. Gender            23. Patient ID/Account # (Assigned by Dentist)

                                                                                                                                                                                               M         F

        RECORD OF SERVICES PROVIDED
              24. Procedure Date          25. Area 26.               27. Tooth Number(s)                     28. Tooth      29. Procedure
                                           of Oral Tooth                  or Letter(s)                                                                                                30. Description                                                      31. Fee
               (MM/DD/CCYY)                Cavity System                                                      Surface           Code

        1
        2

        3

        4
        5

        6
        7
        8

        9
       10

        MISSING TEETH INFORMATION                                                                      Permanent                                                                           Primary                                32. Other
                                                        1       2        3      4     5    6       7     8       9   10     11   12   13    14     15    16    A       B    C       D      E       F    G     H     I       J         Fee(s)
        34. (Place an 'X' on each missing tooth)
                                                       32       31       30     29   28   27      26     25     24   23     22   21   20    19     18    17    T       S    R       Q      P       O    N     M     L      K      33.Total Fee                       0
fold




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         fold
        35. Remarks



        AUTHORIZATIONS                                                                                                                  ANCILLARY CLAIM/TREATMENT INFORMATION
        36. I have been informed of the treatment plan and associated fees. I agree to be responsible for all                           38. Place of Treatment                                                       39. Number of Enclosures (00 to 99)
        charges for dental services and materials not paid by my dental benefit plan, unless prohibited by law, or                                                                                                         Radiograph(s)   Oral Image(s)      Model(s)
        the treating dentist or dental practice has a contractual agreement with my plan prohibiting all or a portion of                         Provider’s Office         Hospital        ECF           Other
        such charges. To the extent permitted by law, I consent to your use and disclosure of my protected health
        information to carry out payment activities in connection with this claim.                                                     40. Is Treatment for Orthodontics?                                          41. Date Appliance Placed (MM/DD/CCYY)

                                                                                                                                                 No (Skip 41-42)             Yes (Complete 41-42)
       X
        Patient /Guardian signature                                                               Date                                  42. Months of Treatment        43. Replacement of Prosthesis?              44. Date Prior Placement (MM/DD/CCYY)
                                                                                                                                            Remaining
                                                                                                                                                                             No          Yes (Complete 44)
        37. I hereby authorize and direct payment of the dental benefits otherwise payable to me, directly to the below named
        dentist or dental entity.                                                                                                       45. Treatment Resulting from

                                                                                                                                                 Occupational illness / injury                     Auto accident                  Other accident
       X
        Subscriber signature                                                                      Date                                  46. Date of Accident (MM/DD/CCYY)                                                       47. Auto Accident State

        BILLING DENTIST OR DENTAL ENTITY (Leave blank if dentist or dental entity is not submitting                                     TREATING DENTIST AND TREATMENT LOCATION INFORMATION
        claim on behalf of the patient or insured/subscriber)                                                                           53. I hereby certify that the procedures as indicated by date are in progress (for procedures that require multiple
                                                                                                                                        visits) or have been completed.
        48. Name, Address, City, State, Zip Code

                                                                                                                                        X
                                                                                                                                        Signed (Treating Dentist)                                                                   Date

                                                                                                                                        54. NPI                                                        55. License Number
                                                                                                                                        56. Address, City, State, Zip Code                             56A. Provider
                                                                                                                                                                                                       Specialty Code
        49. NPI                               50. License Number                          51. SSN or TIN


        52. Phone                                                             52A. Additional                                           57. Phone                                                      58. Additional
            Number       (        )            –                                   Provider ID                                              Number (               )            –                          Provider ID
       © 2006 American Dental Association                                                                                                                                                                                       To Reorder call 1-800-947-4746
        J400 (Same as ADA Dental Claim Form – J401, J402, J403, J404)                                                                                                                                                           or go online at www.adacatalog.org
WARNING: Any person who knowingly files a statement of claim containing any misrepresentations or any
false, incomplete or misleading information may be guilty of a criminal act punishable under law and may be
subject to civil penalties.

Alaska Residents: A person who knowingly and with intent to injure, defraud, or deceive an insurance
company files a claim containing false, incomplete, or misleading information may be prosecuted under state
law.
Arizona Residents: For your protection Arizona law requires the following statement to appear on this form.
Any person who knowingly presents a false or fraudulent claim for payment of a loss is subject to criminal and
civil penalties.
Arkansas Residents: Any person who knowingly presents a false or fraudulent claim for payment of a loss or
benefit or knowingly presents false information in an application for insurance is guilty of a crime and may be
subject to fines and confinement in prison.
California Residents: For your protection California law requires the following to appear on this form:
Any person who knowingly presents a false or fraudulent claim for the payment of a loss is guilty of a
crime and may be subject to fines and confinement in state prison.
Colorado Residents: It is unlawful to knowingly provide false, incomplete, or misleading facts or information
to an insurance company for the purpose of defrauding or attempting to defraud the company. Penalties may
include imprisonment, fines, denial of insurance, and civil damages. Any insurance company or agent of an
insurance company who knowingly provides false, incomplete, or misleading facts or information to a
policyholder or claimant for the purpose of defrauding or attempting to defraud the policyholder or claimant
with regard to a settlement or award payable from insurance proceeds shall be reported to the Colorado Division
of Insurance within the department of regulatory agencies.
Delaware Residents: Any person who knowingly, and with intent to injure, defraud or deceive any insurer,
files a statement of claim containing any false, incomplete or misleading information is guilty of a felony.
District of Columbia Residents: WARNING: It is a crime to provide false or misleading information to an
insurer for the purpose of defrauding the insurer or any other person. Penalties include imprisonment and/or
fines. In addition, an insurer may deny insurance benefits if false information materially related to a claim was
provided by the applicant.
Florida Residents: Any person who knowingly and with intent to injure, defraud, or deceive any insurer files a
statement of claim or an application containing any false, incomplete, or misleading information is guilty of a
felony of the third degree.
Hawaii Residents: For your protection, Hawaii law requires you to be informed that presenting a fraudulent
claim for payment of a loss or benefit is a crime punishable by fines or imprisonment, or both.
Idaho Residents: Any person who knowingly, and with intent to defraud or deceive any insurance company,
files a statement of claim containing any false, incomplete, or misleading information is guilty of a felony.
Indiana Residents: A person who knowingly and with intent to defraud an insurer files a statement of claim
containing any false, incomplete, or misleading information commits a felony.
Kentucky Residents: Any person who knowingly, and with intent to defraud any insurance company or other
person files an application for insurance or a statement of claim containing any materially false information or
conceals, for the purpose of misleading, information concerning any fact material thereto commits a fraudulent
insurance act, which is a crime.
Louisiana Residents: Any person who knowingly presents a false or fraudulent claim for payment of a loss or
benefit or knowingly presents false information in an application for insurance is guilty of a crime and may be
subject to fines and confinement in prison.
Maine Residents: It is a crime to knowingly provide false, incomplete or misleading information to an
insurance company for the purpose of defrauding the company. Penalties may include imprisonment, fines or a
denial of insurance benefits.
Maryland Residents: Any person who knowingly or willfully presents a false or fraudulent claim for
payment of a loss or benefit or who knowingly or willfully presents false information in an application for
insurance is guilty of a crime and may be subject to fines and confinement in prison.
Minnesota Residents: A person who files a claim with intent to defraud or helps commit a fraud against an
insurer is guilty of a crime.
Nevada Residents: Any person who knowingly files a statement of claim containing any misrepresentation or
any false, incomplete or misleading information may be guilty of a criminal act punishable under state or
federal law, or both, and may be subject to civil penalties.
New Hampshire Residents: Any person who, with a purpose to injure, defraud or deceive any insurance
company, files a statement of claim containing any false, incomplete or misleading information is subject to
prosecution and punishment for insurance fraud, as provided in RSA 638:20.
New Jersey Residents: Any person who knowingly files a statement of claim containing any false or
misleading information is subject to criminal and civil penalties.
New Mexico Residents: Any person who knowingly presents a false or fraudulent claim for payment of a loss
or benefit or knowingly presents false information in an application for insurance is guilty of a crime and may
be subject to civil fines and criminal penalties.
New York Residents: Any person who knowingly and with intent to defraud any insurance company or other
person files an application for insurance or statement of claim containing any materially false information, or
conceals for the purpose of misleading, information concerning any material fact, commits a fraudulent
insurance act, which is a crime, and shall also be subject to a civil penalty not to exceed $5,000 and the stated
value of the claim for each such violation.
Ohio Residents: Any person who, with intent to defraud or knowing that he is facilitating a fraud against an
insurer, submits an application or files a claim containing a false or deceptive statement is guilty of insurance
fraud.
Oklahoma Residents: WARNING: Any person who knowingly, and with intent to injure, defraud or deceive
any insurer, makes any claim for the proceeds of an insurance policy containing any false, incomplete or
misleading information is guilty of a felony.
Oregon Residents: Willfully falsifying material facts on an application or claim may subject you to criminal
penalties.
Pennsylvania Residents: Any person who knowingly and with intent to defraud any insurance company or
other person files an application for insurance or statement of claim containing any materially false information
or conceals for the purpose of misleading, information concerning any fact material thereto commits a
fraudulent insurance act, which is a crime and subjects such person to criminal and civil penalties.
Tennessee Residents: It is a crime to knowingly provide false, incomplete or misleading information to an
insurance company for the purpose of defrauding the company. Penalties include imprisonment, fines and
denial of insurance benefits.
Texas Residents: Any person who knowingly presents a false or fraudulent claim for the payment of a loss is
guilty of a crime and may be subject to fines and confinement in state prison.
Virginia Residents: It is a crime to knowingly provide false, incomplete or misleading information to an
insurance company for the purpose of defrauding the company. Penalties include imprisonment, fines and
denial of insurance benefits.
Washington Residents: It is a crime to knowingly provide false, incomplete, or misleading information to an
insurance company for the purpose of defrauding the company. Penalties include imprisonment, fines, and
denial of insurance benefits.
West Virginia Residents: Any person who knowingly presents a false or fraudulent claim for payment of a
loss or benefit or knowingly presents false information in an application for insurance is guilty of a crime and
may be subject to fines and confinement in prison.
                                               Language Assistance Services

Español (Spanish) ATENCIÓN: Si usted habla español, servicios de asistencia lingüística, de forma gratuita,
están a su disposición. Llame al 1-888-333-4742 (TTY: 711).
Português (Portuguese) ATENÇÃO: Se você fala português, encontram-se disponíveis serviços linguísticos
gratuitos. Ligue para 1-888-333-4742 (TTY: 711).
Kreyòl Ayisyen (French Creole) ATANSYON: Si nou palé Kreyòl Ayisyen, gen asistans pou sèvis ki disponib nan
lang nou pou gratis. Rele 1-888-333-4742 (TTY: 711).

繁體中文 (Traditional Chinese) 注意：如果您使用繁體中文，您可以免費獲得語言援助服務。請致電 1-
888-333-4742（TTY：711）。
Tiếng Việt (Vietnamese) CHÚ Ý: Nếu quí vị nói Tiếng Việt, dịch vụ thông dịch của chúng tôi sẵn sàng phục vụ
quí vị miễn phí. Gọi số 1-888-333-4742 (TTY: 711).
Русский (Russian) ВНИМАНИЕ: Если вы говорите на русском языке, то вам доступны бесплатные услуги
перевода. Звоните 1-888-333-4742 (телетайп: 711).
                                                                                                                         ‫( العربية‬Arabic)
                           1 888-333-4742 ‫ ً إتصل على‬.‫ َخدَمات أل ُمساعَدة أللُغَوية ُمتَوفرة لك َمجانا‬، ‫ إذا أنت تتكلم أللُغة ألعربية‬:‫إنتباه‬
                                                                                                                           (TTY: 711 (
ខ្មែ រ (Cambodian) ្រសជុំ ូ នដុំណឹង៖ ប ើអ្នកនិយាយភាសាខ្មែ រ, បយើងមានបសវាកម្ែ កខ្្                             ជូ នបោកអ្ន កបោយ
ឥតគិតថ្លៃ។។ ចូ រ ទូ រស័ព្ទ 1-888-333-4742 (TTY: 711)។
Français (French) ATTENTION: Si vous parlez français, des services d'aide linguistique vous sont proposés
gratuitement. Appelez le 1-888-333-4742 (ATS: 711).
Italiano (Italian) ATTENZIONE: In caso la lingua parlata sia l'italiano, sono disponibili servizi di assistenza
linguistica gratuiti. Chiamare il numero 1-888-333-4742 (TTY: 711).
한국어 (Korean) '알림': 한국어를 사용하시는 경우, 언어 지원 서비스를 무료로 이용하실 수 있습니다. 1-
888-333-4742 (TTY: 711) 번으로 전화해 주십시오.
ελληνικά (Greek) ΠΡΟΣΟΧΗ: Αν μιλάτε ελληνικά, υπάρχουν στη διάθεσή σας δωρεάν υπηρεσίες γλωσσικής
υποστήριξης. Καλέστε 1-888-333-4742 (TTY: 711).
Polski (Polish) UWAGA: Jeżeli mówisz po polsku, możesz skorzystać z bezpłatnej pomocy językowej. Zadzwoń
pod numer 1-888-333-4742 (TTY: 711).
ह द
  िं ी (Hindi) ध्यान दीजिए: अगर आप ह द
                                     िं ी बोलते               ैं तो आपके ललये भाषाकी स ायता मुफ्त में उपलब्ध                         ै.
जानकारी के ललये फोन करे . 1-888-333-4742 (TTY: 711)

 ુ રાતી (Gujarati) ધ્યાન આપો : જો તમે ગજ
ગજ                                     ુ રાતી બોલતા હો તો આપને માટે ભાષાકીય સહાય તદ્દન મફત
ઉપલબ્ધ છે . વિશેષ માહહતી માટે ફોન કરો. 1-888-333-4742 (TTY: 711)

ພາສາລາວ (Lao) ໂປດຊາບ: ຖ      ້ າວ
                                ່ າທ    ້ າພາສາ ລາວ, ການບ
                                   ່ ານເວ                ໍ ິ ລການຊ
                                                                 ່ ວຍເຫ ຼື ອດ
                                                                            ້ ານພາສາ, ໂດຍບ    ່ໍ ເສ
                                                                                                  ັ ຽຄ
                                                                                                     ່ າ,
ແມ່ ນມີ ພ
        ້ ອມໃຫ ້ ທ່ ານ. ໂທຣ 1-888-333-4742 (TTY: 711).
ATTENTION: If you speak a language other than English, language assistance services, free of charge, are
available to you. Call 1-888-333-4742 (TTY: 711).
       Harvard Pilgrim Health Care includes Harvard Pilgrim Health Care, Harvard Pilgrim Health Care of Connecticut,
       Harvard Pilgrim Health Care of New England and HPHC Insurance Company.
                                                                                                           (Continued)
                       General Notice About Nondiscrimination and Accessibility Requirements

Harvard Pilgrim Health Care and its affiliates as noted below (“HPHC”) comply with applicable federal civil rights laws and
does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, national origin, age, disability, or sex. HPHC does not exclude people or
treat them differently because of race, color, national origin, age, disability or sex.
HPHC:
      • Provides free aids and services to people with disabilities to communicate effectively with us, such as qualified sign
        language interpreters and written information in other formats (large print, audio, other formats)
      • Provides free language services to people whose primary language is not English, such as qualified interpreters.
If you need these services, contact our Civil Rights Compliance Officer.
If you believe that HPHC has failed to provide these services or discriminated in another way on the basis of race, color,
national origin, age, disability or sex, you can file a grievance with: Civil Rights Compliance Officer, 93 Worcester St,
Wellesley, MA 02481, (866) 750-2074, TTY service: 711, Fax: (617) 509-3085, Email: civil_rights@harvardpilgrim.org. You
can file a grievance in person or by mail, fax or email. If you need help filing a grievance, the Civil Rights Compliance Officer
is available to help you. You can also file a civil rights complaint with the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services,
Office for Civil Rights, electronically through the Office for Civil Rights Complaint Portal, available at
https://ocrportal.hhs.gov/ocr/portal/lobby.jsf, or by mail or phone at:
                                          U.S. Department of Health and Human Services
                                                  200 Independence Avenue, SW
                                                      Room 509F, HHH Building
                                                       Washington, D.C. 20201
                                               (800) 368-1019, (800) 537-7697 (TTY)
Complaint forms are available at http://www.hhs.gov/ocr/office/file/index.html.




        Harvard Pilgrim Health Care includes Harvard Pilgrim Health Care, Harvard Pilgrim Health Care of Connecticut,
        Harvard Pilgrim Health Care of New England and HPHC Insurance Company.
