               Request for Proposal (RFP) # 19-0035

                         Consultant Services

                                for a

                  Business Technology Assessment


CONTRACT PERIOD: The term of this contract is for one year (time
frame) or as negotiated. There will be an option for four (4) one-year
                      renewals or as negotiated.


                  Issue Date: November 30, 2018

   Proposal Due Date and Hour: December 21, 2018 at 12:00 PM
                                   TABLE OF CONTENTS
                            Request for Proposal Number: 19-0035
                   Consultant Services for a Business Technology Assessment

Section #     Description

General Information Form

I             Introduction

II            Background and Purpose

III           Scope of Services

IV            Proposal Preparation and Submission Requirements

V             Evaluation and Award of Contract

VI            Reservation of Rights

VII           Contract Administration

VIII          Payment Procedures


ATTACHMENT A: Terms and Conditions

ATTACHMENT B: Sample Contract
                             TOWN OF CHRISTIANSBURG, VIRGINIA
                                         RFP # 19-0035
                                  ISSUE DATE: November 30, 2018
                              (TO BE COMPLETED AND RETURNED)
                                GENERAL INFORMATION FORM

QUESTIONS: All inquiries for information regarding this solicitation should be directed to: Kim Widrig,
Purchasing Coordinator, Phone: (540) 382-6128 x1135; faxed to (540) 382-3762, or e-mail:
kwidrig@christiansburg.org.

DUE DATE: Sealed Proposals will be received until December 21, 2018, up to and including 12:00PM.
Failure to submit proposals to the correct location by the designated date and hour will result in
disqualification.

ADDRESS: Proposals should be mailed or hand delivered to: Town of Christiansburg Purchasing
Department, 100 East Main Street, Christiansburg, Virginia 24073. Reference the Due Date and Hour,
and RFP number in the lower left corner of the return envelope or package.

COMPANY INFORMATION/SIGNATURE: In compliance with this Request For Proposal and to all
conditions imposed herein and hereby incorporated by reference, the undersigned offers and agrees to
furnish the services and goods in accordance with the attached signed proposal or as mutually agreed
upon by subsequent negotiation.


 Full Legal Name (print)                  Federal Taxpayer Number         Contractor’s Registration
                                          (ID#)

 Business Name / DBA Name / TA            Payment Address                 Purchase Order Address
 Name and Address




 Contact Name/Title                       Signature (ink)                 Date



 Telephone            Fax Number          Toll Free Number                E-mail Address
 Number
                                 TOWN OF CHRISTIANSBURG
                                           RFP # 19-0035
                     Consultant Services for a Business Technology Assessment


I       INTRODUCTION:

        The Town of Christiansburg is soliciting proposals from qualified vendors to assist in the
        evaluation of its core business information software and workflow. The intent of this Request
for Proposals (RFP) is to hire an experienced, capable consultant to perform the scope detailed within.


II      BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE:

        Originally a concentration of taverns and rest stops along the Great Wilderness Road (now U.S.
Route 11); the Town of Christiansburg was established in 1792 and incorporated in 1833. Since then,
Christiansburg has grown to over 14 square miles of the New River Valley in the Blue Ridge
Mountains in the Commonwealth of Virginia. The Town is now home to approximately 23,000
residents and serves as the county seat of Montgomery County.

          The Town desires to evaluate its core business information software and workflow with a new
suite of integrated systems to increase efficiency. The Town currently uses several disparate      systems
across departments to perform its necessary functions. The Town does not have a clear, comprehensive
look at how technology is being utilized throughout the organization as well as in         individual
departments and believe opportunities for efficiency exist. The following is a key, but not a
comprehensive list of all of the Town’s information software:

           Microsoft Dynamics GP/Cogsdale - Financial system; Cash Receipts, Fixed Assets,
            Accounting/Budgeting, Accounts Receivable/Payable, Utility Billing, HR, Payroll, and
            Purchasing
           Integrity Data – ACA compliance, electronic W-2 and paystub distribution
           GovCollect – BPOL, taxes, citation, parking tickets
           Time Clock Plus - Time and attendance
           iWorq - Building Inspections, Erosion and Sediment Control inspections
           HiperWeb – Public Works work order management, asset management
           ActiveNet – Parks and Recreation, Aquatics – Membership, class, and program registration;
            rentals; Point-of-sale
           When to Work – Aquatics online employee scheduling software


        The primary goal of this project is to assess the current technology and workflow of the Town’s
core business functions and create a strategic, organizational technology use plan to help meets the
goals of the Town’s businesses and residents.

        The new systems must improve service to residents and increase employee productivity and
mobility. It must also be reliable and secure. The Town anticipates enhancing its processes by
        implementing systems that take advantage of the most current system technology and services.
The new systems must maintain current capabilities while easily linking to third-party      applications, if
necessary, to provide additional functionality not available in the base software.


III     STATEMENT OF NEED:

         Offerors shall include in the proposal a description of any significant task not listed in the Scope
of Work which they know to be necessary, either as reimbursable expenses under the Contract or as a
service to be contracted for separately by the Town. The Town requires a qualified             professional
with proven experience in business technology projects, including overall project              management,
needs assessment, RFP development, software selection, contract negotiations, and              implementation
to provide direction for selecting a comprehensive ERP software system. An           integrated solution is
the key to this project and, as such, the Town recognizes that one solution          may not exist for all of
the required business units.



        The successful Offeror shall provide services including, but not necessarily limited to, the
following tasks:



        Phase I: Evaluation of current systems and needs assessment

         The focus of this phase is to gather functional requirements needed to run and streamline the
         Town's business practices. Departments will be interviewed to assess needs and discuss industry
and governmental best practices. Major outcomes of this phase include documentation of current systems
and workflow along with recommendations for improvements or system changes.                 Documentation
shall be approved by all stakeholders.

        The consultant must provide, but not limited to, the following tasks:

           Project management
           Evaluation of current systems and workflow across all departments
           High-level software demonstrations to give stakeholders an understanding of current business
            technology
           Identify deficiencies within the current workflow and proposed opportunities for improved
            system design and efficiency
           Identify other relevant system or resource components or issues that may factor into the need
            to replace or enhance the current systems
           Conduct business process reviews and make recommendations. It is expected that the
            consultant would conduct a series of on-site interviews with the various department and
            various agency users as identified to fully assess the organization


        Phase II: Software Selection and Strategic Plan Development
         The successful Offeror shall create a comprehensive plan of action to implement solutions to
         issues identified within Phase I including estimated costs. The plan of action shall include a
prioritization of solution requirements, potentials for phasing-in solution implementations,
         suggested timeframes for implementing the project, and estimated costs for potential replacement
options, including software, hardware, data conversion, and training.

        The consultant must provide, but not limited to, the following tasks:

           Project management
           Development of Request for Proposal(s) for any necessary software or technology. Managing
            the vendor Q&A and working with the Town to prepare an RFP addendum is also a part of
            this phase.
           Vendor response analysis and selection


        Phase III: Implementation of strategic plan

        The successful Offeror shall manage the implementation of the technology and services from
        Phase II.

        The consultant must provide, but not limited to, the following tasks:

           Maintain authority over the project to meet business needs
           Work very closely with senior leadership for change management and resource allocation
           Control project scope and manage risk
           Communicate project needs on a regular basis
           Continuously monitor project charter to ensure goals are met



IV      PROPOSAL PREPARATION AND SUBMISSION REQUIREMENTS:


        Proposals should be as concise as possible and include only necessary information, tables,
        illustrations, photographs, etc. needed to adequately convey the requested information. Proposal
        shall be limited to a maximum of 30 pages (front and back acceptable and excludes tabs) using no
        less than a 12 font type size. Proposal content shall contain the following information:



        1. Title Page
               a. Furnish the information requested on the REQUEST FOR PROPOSALS TITLE
                   PAGE 2 of this solicitation and include it as the first page of your proposal. The
                   name stated on the Title Sheet must be the full legal name of the Offeror and the
                   address must be that of the office which will have the responsibility for the services
                   provided.
        2. Management Approach/Methodology
                 a. Statement by the prospective Offeror of his understanding of the work to be
                      performed with descriptions of the approach and illustrations of the procedures to be
                      employed.
                 b. Discussion of procedures to be employed and additional information to be required of
                      the Town in connection with the work.
                 c. Tentative schedule of each significant phase of the work.
                 d. Organization of consulting team and approximate percentage of time spent by each
                      level.
                 e. Use of specialists.
                 f. Typical assistance expected from the Town’s staff
        3.   References/Experience
                 a. State whether the organization is national, regional or local. Identify headquarters and
                      nearest office, and identify the office which will serve as the managing office for the
                      work.
                 b. Provide a list of all Virginia local governments consulting clients for the past three
                      years. Indicate the type(s) of services performed and the number of years served for
                      each. Provide the name of a reference and the individual’s telephone number and
                      email for each local government. Provide a brief description of the project outcomes.
        4.   Staffing
                 a. Provide the names, titles, qualifications, degrees, certifications, resumes and licenses
                      of key employees, consultants, and sub-consultants proposed to be involved in the
                      project. Show only experience directly related to their assigned duties under the
                      proposed project.
                 b. Include qualifications of any subcontractors or special consultants to be used for the
                      work in the proposal. If subcontractors or special consultants will be used, they
                      should be identified and provide references.
        5.   Cost
                 a. Fees for services and all other anticipated costs are to be included with your proposal
                      response.
                 b. Provide fees for Phases 1, 2, & 3 separately.
                 c. Provide a list of hourly rates for all personnel proposed to be assigned work under
                      this contract. If you anticipate using any subcontractors in this contract, include their
                      proposed fees (hourly rates and other charges). Prices submitted by the Offeror shall
                      remain firm for the initial term of the contract.
        6.   Other Information
                 a. Include other relevant information the Offeror deems necessary to describe its
                      qualifications to provide the services needed to successfully complete work described
                      in the Scope of Services or which the Offeror deems are relevant to its selection.


Based on the information provided in this Request for Proposals, the Offeror should identify all materials
and services expected from the Town in addition to general assistance.




Pre-proposal meeting/conference call (optional)
A pre-proposal meeting will be held at 2:00 PM, on December 11, 2018, at Christiansburg Town Hall,
100 E Main St, Christiansburg, VA 24073 in the Administrative Conference Room. The purpose of the
pre-proposal meeting will be to discuss the requirements and objectives of this solicitation and answer
any questions potential respondents may have. Attendance at the pre-proposal meeting is voluntary.
However, offerors shall comply with and be responsible for the specifications and information discussed
at the meeting regardless of whether or not they attend. If potential respondents wish to attend the meeting
remotely via telephone, contact Mrs. Kim Widrig, Purchasing Coordinator, at kwidrig@christiansburg.org
by 5:00 PM, on December 10 to receive conference call access information.



RFP Schedule

As a guideline, The Town of Christiansburg anticipates the following timetable:

Date Activity/Event

       November 30, 2018 - Issue Request For Proposal
       December 10, 2018 – Registration of pre-bid by 5:00 p.m.
       December 11, 2018 – 2:00 p.m. Optional pre-bid meeting – all questions are due at this time
       December 14, 2018 – Deadline of posting of addendum, if necessary
       December 21, 2018 - Proposals due at 12:00 p.m.
       January 11, 2019 - Evaluation of proposals completed
       January 14, 2019 - Notify top-ranked Offerors to be interviewed
       January 24-25, 2019 - Interviews with top-ranked Offerors (Offerors are asked to reserve these
        dates)
       February 12, 2019 – Town Council approval and contract award


    GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:

        RFP Response: In Order to be considered for selection, Offerors must submit a complete
        response to this RFP. One (1) digital and four (3) hardcopies of each proposal must be submitted
        to:

                                 Kim Widrig, Purchasing Coordinator
                             Town of Christiansburg, Purchasing Department
                                         100 East Main Street
                                      Christiansburg, VA 24073

            Identify on the outside of envelope: Sealed RFP # 19-0035

            RFP Due date/Opening date and hour: December 21, 2018 at 12:00 P.M.

            The Offeror shall make no other distribution of the proposal.


     1. Proposal Preparations:
        a.    Proposal shall be signed by an authorized representative of the Offeror. All information
             requested should be submitted. The Purchasing Coordinator will review all proposals to
             ensure require information is included. Failure to submit all information requested may
             result in a request to submit the missing information. Proposals which are substantially
             incomplete or lack key information may be rejected as incomplete. Mandatory
             requirements are those required by law or regulation or are such that they cannot be
             waived and are not subject to negotiation.

        b. Proposals will be reviewed and evaluated by a Committee as designated by the Town.

        c. Proposal should be prepared simply and economically, providing a straight forward,
           concise description of capabilities to satisfy the requirements of the RFP. Emphasis
           should be placed on completeness and clarity of content.

        d. Proposal should be organized in the order in which the requirements are presented in the
           RFP. All pages of the proposal should be numbered. Each paragraph in the proposal
           should reference the paragraph number of the corresponding section of the RFP. It is
           also helpful to cite the paragraph number, subletter, and repeat the text of the
           requirements as it appears in the RFP if a response covers more than one page. The
           proposal should contain a table of contents which cross references the RFP
           requirements. Information which the offeror desires to present that does not fall within
           any of the requirements of the RFP should be inserted at an appropriate place or be
           attached at the end of the proposal and designated as additional material. Proposals that
           are not organized in this manner risk elimination from consideration if the evaluators are
           unable to find where the RFP requirements are specifically addressed.

        e. Each copy of the proposal should be bound or contained in a single volume where
           practical. All documentation submitted with the proposal should be contained in that
           single volume.

        f.   Ownership of all data, materials and documentation originated and prepared for the
             Town pursuant to the RFP shall belong exclusively to the Town and be subject to public
             inspection in accordance with the Virginia Freedom of Information Act. Trade secrets
             or proprietary information submitted by an Offeror shall not be subject to public
             disclosure under the Virginia Freedom of Information Act; however, the Offeror must
             invoke the protections of Section 2.2-4342D of the Code of Virginia, in writing, either
             before or at the time the data or other materials to be protected and state the reasons why
             protection is necessary The proprietary or trade secret material submitted must be
             identified by some distinct method such as highlighting or underlining and must indicate
             only the specific words, figures, or paragraphs that constitute trade secret or proprietary
             information. The classification of an entire proposal document, line item prices and/or
             total proposal prices as proprietary or trade secrets is not acceptable and will result in
             rejection of the proposal.




V.   EVALUATION AND AWARD OF CONTRACT:
       A. AWARD OF CONTRACT:
          Selection shall be made of two or more offerors deemed to be fully qualified and best suited
          among those submitting proposals on the basis of the evaluation factors included in the
          Request for Proposal, including price, if so stated in the Request for Proposal. Negotiations
          shall be conducted with the offerors so selected. Price shall be considered but need not be the
          sole determining factor. After negotiations have been conducted with each offeror so
          selected, the Town shall select the offeror which, in its opinion, has made the best proposal,
          and shall award the contract to that offeror. The Town may cancel the Request for Proposal
          or reject proposals at any time prior to an award, and is not required to furnish a statement of
          the reason why a particular proposal was not deemed to be the most advantageous. Should
          the Town determine in writing and in its sole discretion that only one offeror is fully
          qualified, or that one offeror is clearly more highly qualified than the others under
          consideration, a contract may be negotiated and awarded to that offeror. The award
          document will be a contract incorporating by reference all the requirements, terms and
          conditions of the solicitation and the contractor’s proposal as negotiated. See Attachment B
          for sample contract form.

       B. EVALUATION CRITERIA:

       Proposals shall be evaluated by the Town using the following criteria:

       1) Methodology - Specific plans or methodology to be used to perform the services. The ability,
       capacity, and skill of the firm to perform the work described herein in a manner consistent with
       Town goals and standards. – 40 Points

       2) Qualifications - Qualifications and experience of offerors staff to be assigned to perform the
       services. - 35 Points

       3) Strength of proposal - How thoroughly the proposal submitted specifically addresses the
       Town’s RFP including the basic approach and understanding of the Town’s objectives – 15
       Points

       4) Price - The ability to provide a cost-efficient service. – 10 Points



VI     RESERVATION OF RIGHTS:
       The Town reserves the right to award in part or in whole, to one or more vendors, or to reject any
       or all proposals, whichever is deemed to be in its best interest.

VII    CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION:
       Adam Carpenetti, Assistant to the Town Manager, or his designee, shall be identified as the
       Contract Administrator and shall use all powers under the contract to enforce its faithful
       performance. The Contract Administrator, or his designee, shall determine the amount, quantity,
       acceptability, fitness of all aspect of the services and shall decide all other questions in connection
       with the services. The Contract Administrator, or his designee, shall not have the authority to
       approve changes in the services which alter the concept or which call for an extension of time for
       this contract. Any modifications made must be authorized by the Town’s Purchasing Coordinator
       through a written amendment to the contract.

VIII   PAYMENT PROCEDURES:
The Town will authorize payment to the Town after receipt of Contractor’s correct invoice for
services rendered. Invoices shall be sent to:

Valerie Tweedie
100 East Main Street
Christiansburg, VA 24073
Vtweedie@christiansburg.org




                               ATTACHMENT A
                            TERMS AND CONDITIONS
                                      TOWN OF CHRISTIANSBURG

A.   Acceptance of Bids/Proposals: Unless otherwise specified, all bids/proposals submitted shall be valid for
     a minimum period of 60 calendar days following the date established for receiving bids/proposals. At the
     end of the 60 calendar days the bid/proposal may be withdrawn at the written request of the
     bidder/proposer. If the bid/proposal is not withdrawn at that time, it remains in effect until an award is
     made or the solicitation is cancelled.
B.   Anti-Discrimination: By submitting their bids/proposals, bidders/proposers certify to the Town of
     Christiansburg that they will conform to the provisions of the Federal Civil Rights Act of 1964, as
     amended, as well as the Virginia Fair Employment Contracting Act of 1975, as amended, where applicable,
     the Virginians With Disabilities Act, the Americans With Disabilities Act and § 2.2-4311 of the Virginia
     Public Procurement Act (VPPA). If the award is made to a faith-based organization, the organization shall
     not discriminate against any recipient of goods, services, or disbursements made pursuant to the contract on
     the basis of the recipient's religion, religious belief, refusal to participate in a religious practice, or on the
     basis of race, age, color, gender or national origin and shall be subject to the same rules as other
     organizations that contract with public bodies to account for the use of the funds provided; however, if the
     faith-based organization segregates public funds into separate accounts, only the accounts and programs
     funded with public funds shall be subject to audit by the public body. (Code of Virginia, § 2.2-4343.1E).
     In every contract over $10,000 the provisions in 1 and 2 below apply:

              1. During the performance of this contract, the contractor agrees as follows:

                       a. The contractor will not discriminate against any employee or applicant for employment
                       because of race, religion, color, sex, national origin, age, disability, or any other basis
                       prohibited by state law relating to discrimination in employment, except where there is a
                       bona fide occupational qualification reasonably necessary to the normal operation of the
                       contractor. The contractor agrees to post in conspicuous places, available to employees
                       and applicants for employment, notices setting forth the provisions of this
                       nondiscrimination clause.

                       b. the contractor, in all solicitations or advertisements for employees placed by or on
                       behalf of the contractor, will state that such contractor is an equal opportunity employer.

                       c. Notices, advertisements and solicitations placed in accordance with federal law, rule,
                       or regulation shall be deemed sufficient for the purpose of meeting these requirements.

              2.   The contractor will include the provisions of 1 above in every subcontract or purchase order
                   over $10,000, so that the provisions will be binding upon each subcontractor or vendor.
C.   Antitrust: By entering into a contract, the contractor conveys, sells, assigns, and transfers to the Town of
     Christiansburg all rights, title and interest in and to all causes of action it may now have or hereafter
     acquire under the antitrust laws of the United States and the Commonwealth of Virginia, relating to the
     particular goods or services purchased or acquired by the Town of Christiansburg under said contract.
D.   Applicable Laws and Courts: This solicitation and any resulting contract shall be governed in all respects
     by the laws of the Commonwealth of Virginia and any litigation with respect thereto shall be brought in the
     courts of Montgomery County, Virginia. The Contractor shall comply with federal, state, local laws, and
     regulations.
E.   Assignment of Contract: A contract shall not be assignable by the contractor in whole or in part without
     the written consent of the Town of Christiansburg.
F.   Availability of Funds: It is understood and agreed between the parties herein that the Town of
     Christiansburg shall be bound hereunder only to the extent of the funds available or which may hereafter
     become available for the purpose of this agreement.
G.   Bid/Proposal Pricing: The Bid/Proposal price shall be an all-inclusive price to deliver the specified goods
     and/or services FOB Destination to the address specified address per the specifications. Invoices must be
     itemized and will be paid at the unit price in the proposal. The Town will not accept or pay for additional
     line items such as freight, shipping and handling, delivery, downtime, equipment, lost time due to
     inclement weather or any other charges additional to the unit prices quoted in the Bid/Proposal.
H.   Changes to the Contract: Changes can be made to the contract in any of the following ways:
               1. The parties may agree in writing to modify the scope of the contract. An increase or decrease
                   in the price of the contract resulting from such modification shall be agreed to by the parties
                   as a part of their written agreement to modify the scope of the contract.
               2.       The Town of Christiansburg may order changes within the general scope of the contract
                   at any time by written notice to the contractor. Changes within the scope of the contract
                   include, but are not limited to, things such as services to be performed, the method of packing
                   or shipment, and the place of delivery or installation. The contractor shall comply with the
                   notice upon receipt. The contractor shall be compensated for any additional costs incurred as
                   the result of such order and shall give the Town of Christiansburg a credit for any savings.
                   Said compensation shall be determined by one of the following methods:
                        a. By mutual agreement between the parties in writing; or
                        b. By agreeing upon a unit price or using a unit price set forth in the contract, if the
                             work to be done can be expressed in units, and the contractor accounts for the
                             number of units of work performed, subject to the Town of Christiansburg’s right to
                             audit the contractor’s records and/or to determine the correct number of units
                             independently; or
                        c. By ordering the contractor to proceed with the work and keep a record of all costs
                             incurred and savings realized. A markup for overhead and profit may be allowed if
                             provided by the contract. The same markup shall be used for determining a decrease
                             in price as the result of savings realized. The contractor shall present the Town of
                             Christiansburg with all vouchers and records of expenses incurred and savings
                             realized. The Town of Christiansburg shall have the right to audit the records of the
                             contractor as it deems necessary to determine costs or savings. Any claim for an
                             adjustment in price under this provision must be asserted by written notice to the
                             Town of Christiansburg within thirty (30) days from the date of receipt of the written
                             order from the Town of Christiansburg. If the parties fail to agree on an amount of
                             adjustment, the question of an increase or decrease in the contract price or time for
                             performance shall be resolved in accordance with the procedures for resolving
                             disputes provided by the Disputes Clause of this contract. Neither the existence of
                             a claim nor a dispute resolution process, litigation or any other provision of this
                             contract shall excuse the contractor from promptly complying with the changes
                             ordered by the Town of Christiansburg or with the performance of the contract
                             generally.
I.   Claims: Contractual claims, whether for money or other relief, shall be submitted in writing to the Town
     Manager, Town of Christiansburg Office of the Town Manager, 100 East Main Street, Christiansburg, VA
     24073, no later than sixty (60) days after final payment; however, written notice of the contractor’s
     intention to file such claim shall have been given at the time of the occurrence or beginning of the work
     upon which the claim is based. Nothing herein shall preclude a contract from requiring submission of an
     invoice for final payment within a certain time after completion and acceptance of the work or acceptance
     of the goods. Pending claims shall not delay payment of amounts agreed due in the final payment (Code of
     Virginia, Section 2.2-4363). A contractor may not institute legal action prior to receipt of the Town
     Manager’s decision on the claim, unless that office fails to render such decision within thirty (30) days.
     Failure of the Town to render a decision within thirty (30) days shall not result in the contractor being
     award the relief claimed or in any other relief or penalty. The sole remedy for the Town’s failure to render
     a decision within thirty (30) days shall be the contractor’s right to institute immediate legal action. The
     decision of the Town Manager shall be final and conclusive unless the contractor, within six (6) months of
     the date of the final decision of the claim, institutes legal action as provided in the Code of Virginia,
     Section 2.2-4364.
J.    Clarification of Terms: If any prospective bidder/proposer has questions about the specifications or other
     solicitation documents, the prospective bidder/proposer should contact the buyer whose name appears on
     the face of the solicitation no later than three (3) working days before the due date. The bidder/proposer
     may be asked to submit such questions in writing. Any revisions to the solicitation will be made only by
     addendum issued by the buyer.
K.   Debarment Status: By submitting their bids/proposals, bidders/proposers certify that they are not currently
     debarred by the Commonwealth of Virginia from submitting bids/proposals on contracts for the type of
     goods and/or services covered by this solicitation, nor are they an agent of any person or entity that is
     currently so debarred.
L.   Default: In case of failure to deliver goods or services in accordance with the contract terms and
     conditions, the Town of Christiansburg, after due oral or written notice, may procure them from other
     sources and hold the contractor responsible for any resulting additional purchase and administrative costs.
     This remedy shall be in addition to any other remedies which the Town of Christiansburg may have. In
     addition, the Town of Christiansburg reserves the right to cancel any orders placed that are not delivered by
     the date specified in the Invitation for Proposal.
M.   Drug-Free Workplace: During the performance of this contract, the contractor agrees to (i) provide a
     drug-free workplace for the contractor's employees; (ii) post in conspicuous places, available to employees
     and applicants for employment, a statement notifying employees that the unlawful manufacture, sale,
     distribution, dispensation, possession, or use of a controlled substance or marijuana is prohibited in the
     contractor's workplace and specifying the actions that will be taken against employees for violations of
     such prohibition; (iii) state in all solicitations or advertisements for employees placed by or on behalf of the
     contractor that the contractor maintains a drug-free workplace; and (iv) include the provisions of the
     foregoing clauses in every subcontract or purchase order of over $10,000, so that the provisions will be
     binding upon each subcontractor or vendor.
     For the purposes of this section, “drug-free workplace” means a site for the performance of work done in
     connection with a specific contract awarded to a contractor, the employees of whom are prohibited from
     engaging in the unlawful manufacture, sale, distribution, dispensation, possession or use of any controlled
     substance or marijuana during the performance of the contract.
N.   Ethics in Public Contracting: By submitting their bids/proposals, bidders/proposers certify that their
     bids/proposals are made without collusion or fraud and that they have not offered or received any
     kickbacks or inducements from any other bidder/proposer, supplier, manufacturer or subcontractor in
     connection with their bid/proposal, and that they have not conferred on any public employee having official
     responsibility for this procurement transaction any payment, loan, subscription, advance, deposit of money,
     services, or anything of more than nominal value, present or promised, unless consideration of substantially
     equal or greater value was exchanged.
O.   Facsimile and Email Proposals: Facsimile or email unsealed proposals received in the Town of
     Christiansburg Purchasing Office prior to the time and date designated for proposal submission will be
     accepted. It is the bidder’s/proposer’s responsibility to ensure these bids/proposals are received by the
     Town of Christiansburg Purchasing Office. Facsimile or email bids/proposals will not be accepted for
     sealed bids or proposals.
P.   Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986: By submitting their bids/proposals, bidders/ proposers
     certify that they do not and will not during the performance of this contract employ illegal alien workers or
     otherwise violate the provisions of the federal Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986.
Q.   Indemnification: Contractor agrees to indemnify, defend, and hold harmless the Town of Christiansburg
     its officers, agents, and employees from any claims, damages and actions of any kind or nature, whether at
     law or in equity, arising from or caused by any kind or nature of services furnished by the contractor or
     contractor’s use of any materials, goods, or equipment of any kind or nature, provided that such liability is
     not attributable to the sole negligence of the Town of Christiansburg.
R.   Late Proposals: To be considered for selection, bids/proposals must be received by the Town of
     Christiansburg Purchasing Office, 100 East Main Street, Christiansburg, VA 24073, by the designated date
     and hour. Bids/Proposals received in the Town of Christiansburg Purchasing Office after the date and hour
     designated are automatically disqualified and will not be considered. The Town of Christiansburg is not
     responsible for delays in the delivery of mail by the U.S. Postal Service, private couriers, or other means of
     delivery. It is the sole responsibility of the bidder/proposer to ensure that its bid/proposal reaches the Town
     of Christiansburg Purchasing Office by the designated time and hour.
S.   Mandatory use of Town Form and Terms and Conditions: Failure to submit a bid/proposal on the
     official Town of Christiansburg form provided for that purpose shall be a cause for rejection of the
     bid/proposal. Modification of or additions to any portion of the Invitation for Bid/Request for Proposal
     may be cause for rejection of the bid/proposal; however, the Town of Christiansburg reserves the right to
     decide, on a case by case basis, in its sole discretion, whether to reject such a bid/proposal as
     nonresponsive. As a precondition to its acceptance, the Town of Christiansburg may, in its sole discretion,
     request that the bidder/proposer withdraw or modify nonresponsive portions of a bid/proposal which do not
     affect quality, quantity, price, or delivery. No modification of or addition to the provisions of the contract
     shall be effective unless reduced to writing and signed by the parties.
T.   Negotiation with the Lowest Bidder: Unless all bids are cancelled or rejected, the Town of Christiansburg
     reserves the right granted by § 2.2-4318 of the Code of Virginia to negotiate with the lowest responsive,
     responsible bidder to obtain a contract price within the funds available to the Town whenever such low bid
     exceeds the Town’s available funds. For the purpose of determining when such negotiations may take
     place, the term “available funds” shall mean those funds which were budgeted by the agency for this
     contract prior to the issuance of the written Invitation for Bid. Negotiations with the low bidder may
     include both modifications of the bid price and the Scope of Work/Specifications to be performed. The
     Town shall initiate such negotiations by written notice to the lowest responsive, responsible bidder that its
     bid exceeds the available funds and that the Town wishes to negotiate a lower contract price. The times,
     places, and manner of negotiating shall be agreed to by the Town and the lowest responsive, responsible
     bidder.
U.   Nondiscrimination of Contractors: A bidder, proposer, offeror, or contractor shall not be discriminated
     against in the solicitation or award of this contract because of race, religion, color, sex, national origin, age,
     disability, faith-based organizational status, any other basis prohibited by state law relating to
     discrimination in employment. If the award of this contract is made to a faith-based organization and an
     individual, who applies for or receives goods, services, or disbursements provided pursuant to this contract
     objects to the religious character of the faith-based organization from which the individual receives or
     would receive the goods, services, or disbursements, the public body shall offer the individual, within a
     reasonable period of time after the date of his objection, access to equivalent goods, services, or
     disbursements from an alternative provider.
V.   Payment:
               1. To Prime Contractor:

                       a.    Invoices for items ordered, delivered, and accepted shall be submitted by the
                             contractor directly to the payment address shown on the purchase order/contract.
                             All invoices shall show the Town of Christiansburg or state contract number and/or
                             purchase order number; social security number (for individual contractors) or the
                             federal employer identification number (for proprietorships, partnerships, and
                             corporations).

                       b.    Any payment terms requiring payment in less than 45 days will be regarded as
                             requiring payment 45 days after invoice or delivery, whichever occurs last. This
                             shall not affect offers of discounts for payment in less than 45 days, however.

                       c.    All goods or services provided under this contract or purchase order, that are to be
                             paid for with public funds, shall be billed by the contractor at the contract price,
                             regardless of which public agency is being billed.

                       d.    The following shall be deemed to be the date of payment: the date of postmark in all
                             cases where payment is made by mail, or the date of offset when offset proceedings
                             have been instituted as authorized under the Virginia Debt Collection Act.
                       e.    Unreasonable Charges. Under certain emergency procurements and for most time
                             and material purchases, final job costs cannot be accurately determined at the time
                             orders are placed. In such cases, contractors should be put on notice that final
                             payment in full is contingent on a determination of reasonableness with respect to
                             all invoiced charges. Charges which appear to be unreasonable will be researched
                             and challenged, and that portion of the invoice held in abeyance until a settlement
                             can be reached. Upon determining that invoiced charges are not reasonable, the
                          Town of Christiansburg shall promptly notify the contractor, in writing, as to those
                          charges which it considers unreasonable and the basis for the determination. A
                          contractor may not institute legal action unless a settlement cannot be reached
                          within thirty (30) days of notification. The provisions of this section do not relieve
                          an agency of its prompt payment obligations with respect to those charges which
                          are not in dispute (Code of Virginia, § 2.2-4363).
              2. To Subcontractors:

                       a.    A contractor awarded a contract under this solicitation is hereby obligated:

                             (1) To pay the subcontractor(s) within seven (7) days of the contractor’s receipt of
                                 payment from the Town of Christiansburg for the proportionate share of the
                                 payment received for work performed by the subcontractor(s) under the
                                 contract; or

                             (2) To notify the Town of Christiansburg and the subcontractor(s), in writing, of
                                 the contractor’s intention to withhold payment and the reason.

                       b.    The contractor is obligated to pay the subcontractor(s) interest at the rate of one
                             percent per month (unless otherwise provided under the terms of the contract) on all
                             amounts owed by the contractor that remain unpaid seven (7) days following receipt
                             of payment from the Town of Christiansburg, except for amounts withheld as stated
                             in (2) above. The date of mailing of any payment by U. S. Mail is deemed to be
                             payment to the addressee. These provisions apply to each sub-tier contractor
                             performing under the primary contract. A contractor’s obligation to pay an interest
                             charge to a subcontractor may not be construed to be an obligation of the Town of
                             Christiansburg.

W.    Precedence of Terms: The following General Terms and Conditions ANTI-DISCRIMINATION,
      ANTITRUST, APPLICABLE LAWS AND COURTS, CLARIFICATION OF TERMS, DEBARMENT
      STATUS, ETHICS IN PUBLIC CONTRACTING, IMMIGRATION REFORM AND CONTROL ACT
      OF 1986, MANDATORY USE OF TOWN FORM AND TERMS AND CONDITIONS, PAYMENT shall
      apply in all instances. In the event there is a conflict between any of the other General Terms and
      Conditions and any Special Terms and Conditions in this solicitation, the Special Terms and Conditions
      shall apply.
X.    Public Notice of Award: Upon the award or the announcement of the decision to award a contract as a
      result of this solicitation, the Town of Christiansburg will publicly post such notice on the Town of
      Christiansburg website (www.christiansburg.org) if the amount of the transaction is $30,000 or more.
      Award information may also be obtained by contacting the buyer whose name appears on this solicitation.
Y.    Qualification of Bidders/Proposers: The Town of Christiansburg may make such reasonable
      investigations as deemed proper and necessary to determine the ability of the bidder/proposer to perform
      the services/furnish the goods and the bidder/proposer shall furnish to the Town of Christiansburg all such
      information and data for this purpose as may be requested. The Town of Christiansburg reserves the right
      to inspect bidder’s/proposer’s physical facilities prior to award to satisfy questions regarding the
      bidder/proposer’s capabilities. The Town of Christiansburg further reserves the right to reject any
      (bid/proposal) if the evidence submitted by, or investigations of, such bidder/proposer fails to satisfy the
      Town of Christiansburg that such bidder/proposer is properly qualified to carry out the obligations of the
      contract and to provide the services and/or furnish the goods contemplated therein.
Z.    Supremacy Clause: Notwithstanding any provision in the bidder’s/proposer’s response to the contrary, the
      bidder/proposer agrees that the terms and conditions contained in the Town of Christiansburg’s IFB/RFP
      prevail over contrary terms and conditions contained in the bidder’s/proposer’s response.
AA.   Taxes: Sales to the Town of Christiansburg are normally exempt from State sales tax. State sales and use
      tax certificates of exemption will be issued upon request. Deliveries against this contract shall usually be
      free of Federal excise and transportation taxes.
BB.   Transportation and Packaging: By submitting their bids/proposals, all bidders/proposers certify and
      warrant that the price offered for FOB destination includes only the actual freight rate costs at the lowest
      and best rate and is based upon the actual weight of the goods to be shipped. Except as otherwise specified
      herein, standard commercial packaging, packing and shipping containers shall be used. All shipping
      containers shall be legibly marked or labeled on the outside with purchase order number, commodity
      description, and quantity.
CC.   Testing and Inspection: The Town of Christiansburg reserves the right to conduct any test/inspection it
      may deem advisable to assure goods and services conform to the specifications.
DD.   Use of Brand Names: Unless otherwise provided in this solicitation, the name of a certain brand, make or
      manufacturer does not restrict proposers to the specific brand, make or manufacturer named, but conveys
      the general style, type, character, and quality of the article desired. Any article which the public body, in
      its sole discretion, determines to be the equivalent of that specified, considering quality, workmanship,
      economy of operation, and suitability for the purpose intended, shall be accepted. The bidder/proposer is
      responsible to clearly and specifically identify the product being offered and to provide sufficient
      descriptive literature, catalog cuts and technical detail to enable the Town to determine if the product
      offered meets the requirements of the solicitation. This is required even if offering the exact brand, make
      or manufacturer specified. Normally in competitive sealed bids only the information furnished with the
      bids will be considered in the evaluation. Failure to furnish adequate data for evaluation purposes may
      result in declaring a bid/proposal nonresponsive. Unless the bidder/proposer clearly indicates in its
      bid/proposal that the product offered is an equivalent product, such bid/proposal will be considered to offer
      the brand name product referenced in the solicitation.
EE.   Termination:
               1. The Town may terminate this contract with or without cause by giving contractor a thirty (30)
                    day notice in writing. Upon delivery of said notice and upon expiration of the thirty (30) day
                    period, contractor shall discontinue all services in connection with the performance of this
                    contract and shall proceed to cancel promptly all related third party contracts. Termination of
                    the Contract by the Town pursuant to this paragraph shall terminate all of the Town’s
                    obligations hereunder and no charges, penalties or other costs shall be due contractor except
                    for compensation of work timely and satisfactorily completed.
               2. In addition to the Town’s right of termination, either party may terminate this contract in the
                    event the other party violates or fails to perform any covenant, provision, obligation, term, or
                    condition contained in this contract, provided that unless otherwise provided in this contract,
                    such failure or violation shall not be cause for termination if the defaulting party cures such
                    default (if the default is susceptible to cure) within thirty (30) days of receipt of a written
                    notice of default. The notice of default shall state the party’s intent to terminate the contract if
                    the default is not cured within a specified time period.
               3. Appropriation Approval. Contractor acknowledges that the Town’s performance and
                    obligation to pay under this contract is contingent upon annual appropriation by Town
                    Council. Contractor agrees that in the event that such appropriation is not forthcoming, the
                    Town may terminate this contract and no charges, penalties, or other costs shall be assessed.


SPECIAL TERMS AND CONDITONS



       1.   Award: The Town of Christiansburg will make the award on a Unit Price basis to the lowest
            responsive and responsible bidder. The purchasing office reserves the right to conduct any test it
            may deem advisable and to make all evaluations. The Town also reserves the right to reject any or
            all bids, in whole or in part, to waive informalities and to delete items prior to making the award,
            whenever it is deemed in the sole opinion of the procuring public body to be in its best interest.
       2.   Extra Charges Not Allowed: The bid price shall be for complete delivery of equipment, ready for
            use by the Town of Christiansburg, and shall include all applicable freight and installation charges;
            extra charges will not be allowed.
       3.   Insurance: Contractor certifies that it and its subcontractors, if any, will have the insurance coverage
            set forth below at the time the contract is awarded and that such insurance will be maintained during
     the entire term of the contract and that all insurance coverage will be provided by insurance
     companies authorized to sell insurance in Virginia by the Virginia State Corporation Commission.
     MINIMUM INSURANCE REQUIRED:
         a. Workers’ Compensation: Statutory requirements and benefits. Coverage is compulsory
              for employers of three or more employees, to include the employer.
         b. Employer’s Liability: $100,000
         c. Commercial General Liability: $1,000,000 per occurrence. Commercial General Liability
              shall include bodily injury and property damage, personal injury, advertising injury,
              products and completed operations coverage. The “Town of Christiansburg, its officers,
              agents, and employees,” shall be named as additional insured on a primary basis and so
              endorsed on the policy. Such additional insured status shall be primary without
              participation by the Town’s insurers.
         d. Automobile Liability - $1,000,000 per occurrence.
         e. Professional Liability, if applicable: $1,000,000 per occurrence.
         f. Umbrella Liability: $1,000,000 per occurrence.
4.   Maintenance Manuals: The Contractor shall provide with each piece of equipment an operations
     and maintenance manual with wiring diagrams, parts list, and a copy of all warranties when
     applicable.
5.   Warranty (Commercial): The Contractor agrees that the supplies or services furnished under any
     award resulting from this solicitation shall be covered by the most favorable commercial warranties
     the contractor gives any customer for such supplies or services and that the rights and remedies
     provided therein are in addition to and do not limit those available to the Town of Christiansburg by
     any other clause of this solicitation. A copy of this warranty must be furnished with the bid.
                                          ATTACHMENT B
                                          SAMPLE CONTRACT

CONTRACT FOR



Contract Number:



This contract entered into this ____ day of July 2018, by __________hereinafter called the “Contractor”
and the Town of Christiansburg, hereinafter called the “Town”.



WITNESSETH that the Contractor and the Town, in consideration of mutual covenants, promises and
agreements herein contained, agree as follows:



SCOPE OF SERVICES: The Contractor shall provide the services to the Town as set forth in the
______________________________________________.



CONTRACT PERIOD: The contract period is from ______________________________.



COMPENSATION AND METHOD OF PAYMENT: The Contractor shall be paid in accordance with the
Contract Documents in the amount of ____________________.



CONTRACT DOCUMENTS: The Contract Documents shall consist of _____________________.



CONTRACTOR:                           TOWN OF CHRISTIANSBURG:



By:                                      By:_______________________________

Title:                                   Title: Town Manager
Date: _________________________   Date: ___________________________
