    RFP ITO (Rev. 12.0, 11/1/18)                                                                                                                 Instructions to Offerers
                                                                         Dated 11/20/2018



                                               Triad National Security, LLC (Triad)
                                             Los Alamos National Laboratory (LANL)

                                                       REQUEST FOR PROPOSALS
                                                      INSTRUCTIONS TO OFFERORS
                                                                 TABLE OF CONTENTS

    No.      Title                                                                                                                                                       Page
    1.       INVITATION TO SUBMIT BID/ PROPOSAL (Nov 2018) ..... .. ... ... ..... ......... .. ......... ... ..... ................ .. 2
    2.       AMENDMENT OF SOLICITATION (Nov 2018) ... ........ ............... .. ...... .. ...... ...... ......... ... .. ........ ....... .. 3
    3.       PREPARATION AND SUBMISSION OF PROPOSALS (Nov 2018) ..... ........... .. .. ........................... 3
    4.       BASIS OF AWARD- BEST VALUE (Nov 2018) .. ......... ................ ...... ...................... .......... .... .... .. .. 6
    5.       PRICING INFORMATION/ DOCUMENTATION (Nov 2018) ........ ...... ....... ................ ................... .. 8
    6.       OTHER AWARD CONSIDERATIONS (Nov 2018) .. .. ....... ... .. .. .............. .......... ...... ..... ................ .... . 8
    7.       EXAMINATION OF SOLICITATION DOCUMENTS (Nov 2018) ............ .............. .... ...... ................ . 9
    8.       OFFEROR'S MODIFICATION AND WITHDRAWAL OF PROPOSALS (Nov 2018) ... ... ...... ........... 9
    9.       DISCLOSURE OF PROPOSAL DATA (Nov 2018) .......... ........... ........ .................................... ......... 9
    10.      REGIONAL PURCHASING PRICING PREFERENCES (Nov 2018) ..... ..... .. ....... .... ....... ............... 10
    11 .     TRIAD PUEBLO BUSINESS ALLIANCE (Nov 201 B..... ........... .. .... .. .................... ...... .... ... ............. 11
    12.      SUBCONTRACTOR'S REGIONAL AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PLAN (Nov
             2018) .............. ........... ... ...................... ..... ................. .. ........................................... ....... ... .... .... ....... 11
    13.      NOTICE TO UNSUCCESSFUL OFFEROR(S) (Nov 2018) ............ ..... ................ ........ ... ........ ....... 13
)   14.      NOTICE CONCERNING NEW MEXICO GROSS RECEIPTS TAX (Nov 2018) ............. .............. 13
    15.      ELECTRONIC FUNDS TRANSFER AUTHORIZATION FORM (Nov 2018) ...... .... ...... .. ............... 14
    16.      SECURITY DOCUMENTS AND/OR APPROVALS REQUIRED PRIOR TO
             COMMENCEMENT OF WORK (Aug 2015) ............. ... ................................................................. .. 14
    17.      STATEMENT OF WORK CONFIGURATION REVIEW ............... ..... ............................. ........ .. ..... 14
    18.      SOFTWARE LICENSE AGREEMENT OR MAINTENANCE AGREEMENT (Nov 2018) .. .... ...... .. 14
    19.      GREEN/ SUSTAINABLE PRODUCTS (Oct 2014) .......... ............ ......... ............... ... ........ ............... 14
    20.      TRIAD PROCUREMENT PROTEST PROCESS (Nov 2018) ...... .... .......... ...... ....... ......... ... .. ......... 14
    21.      AGREEMENT TO ARBITRATE (Nov 2018) .......... ... .. .................... .. .............. .... ..... ..... .. ............ ... . 17




    RFP No. 511017                                                                                                                                         Page 1 of 18
    RFP ITO (Rev. 12.0, 11/1/18)                                                                     Instructions to Offerers
                                                        Dated 11/20/2018



    1.       INVITATION TO SUBMIT BID/ PROPOSAL (Nov 2018)
             a.   The North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) code for this acquisition is
                  334112. The small business size standard for the listed NAICS code is 1,250 employees.
             b.   You are invited to submit a bid/proposal (herein referred to collectively as Proposal) for the
                  items and services specified in this Solicitation, also known as request for proposal (RFP) and
                  request for quotation (RFQ), in accordance with the provisions contained herein and the terms
                  and conditions of the proposed subcontract. All questions you may have concerning this
                  Solicitation should be submitted in writing and directed to the Triad Subcontract Administrator
                  specified below.
                       Maureen Armijo, Subcontract Administrator
                       Telephone no.: 505-665-2098
                       Email address: m_armijo@lanl.gov
                       Facsimile no.: 505-665-8944
             c.   Your Proposal is to be delivered to the Subcontract Administrator not later than 2:30 PM
                  Mountain Time on March 18th, 2019,. Partial or incomplete proposals will not be considered.
             d.   Proposals may be submitted as specified below.
                  (1) Electronically to the Subcontract Administrator;
                           •       Proposals shall be transmitted via electronic file transfer to the website below,
                                   using m armijo@lanl.gov as the recipient:


                                   https://transfer.lanl.gov

)                          •       Each volume must include the specified Proposal Documents (see Section 3b
                                   below) within a compressed , password protected , ZIP file archive. The file size
                                   limitation per archive is 2GB.
                           •       A Separate email must be sent to m armijo@lanl.gov containing the password
                                   used to protect the file archive.
                  (2) Via the U. S. Postal Service addressed as follows:
                           Triad National Security, LLC
                           Attn : Maureen Armijo
                           P.O. Box 1663, MS D447
                           Los Alamos, New Mexico 87545
                  (3) Via other delivery services, such as UPS, Federal Express, Airborne , addressed as
                      follows :
                           Triad National Security, LLC
                           Attn : Maureen Armijo, MS D447
                           Bldg . SM-30 Bikini Atoll Road
                           Los Alamos, New Mexico 87545
                  (4) Hand-carried to the Subcontract Administrator. Offerors electing to hand-carry proposals
                      should call the Subcontract Administrator to make arrangements for delivery.
             e.   You will allow a minimum two hundred forty (240) calendar days for acceptance of your
                  Proposal.
             f.   Triad reserves the right to cancel this Solicitation at any time without incurring any
                  liability/damages associated with such cancellation.




    RFP No. 511017                                                                                          Page 2 of 18
    RFP ITO (Rev. 12.0, 11/1/18)                                                                  Instructions to Offerors
                                                   Dated 11/20/2018

             g.   If you plan to submit a Proposal in response to this Solicitation, complete and return the
                  Notification of Intent to Submit Proposal to the Triad Subcontract Administrator within seven
                  (7) business days of receipt of this Solicitation. This form may be found at
                  http://www.lanl .gov/business/vendors/supplier-forms. php.
             h.   If you have an office within the continental United States of America or its territories, you must
                  be registered and on active status in the System for Award Management (SAM) at
                  https://www.sam.gov/ in order to be eligible for award of a Triad subcontract. If you are not
                  listed in SAM at the time that your proposal is received, your proposal will be deemed to be
                  incomplete and will not be considered until you have provided satisfactory written
                  representations of your size and socioeconomic status to Triad .

    2.       AMENDMENT OF SOLICITATION (Nov 2018)
             a.   Triad may, by amendment, modify any provision or part of this Solicitation at any time prior to
                  the award of any resultant subcontract. All terms and conditions that are not modified remain
                  unchanged.
             b.   You shall acknowledge receipt of any amendments to this Solicitation by email to the Triad
                  Subcontract Administrator. In addition, you must also acknowledge receipt of all amendments
                  on the Offerer's Proposal Letter; failure to do so may result in the disqualification of your
                  Proposal.
                  Acknowledgements shall be provided as follows :
                       •   Immediately upon receipt of the amendment via email to the Triad Subcontract
                           Administrator.
                       •   In the Offerers Proposal Letter that accompanies the Offerer's proposal.

    3.       PREPARATION AND SUBMISSION OF PROPOSALS (Nov 2018)
)
             a.   Your Proposal should contain your best terms from a cost/price and technical standpoint, and
                  include all available discounts and/or government pricing.
             b.   Submit your Proposal in two volumes, the contents of which are identified below:
                  •   Commercial Proposal Volume (i.e. , business, administrative, and pricing information)
                  •   Technical Proposal Volume (i.e., technical information on how the scope of work will be
                      performed)
             c.   The documents identified below are all required and must be submitted as part of your
                  Proposal. Complete and accurate submittal of the information requested will be the basis to
                  determine whether your Proposal is responsive to this Solicitation . Supplements to the
                  documents may be used, if additional information is needed to present a complete and
                  effective proposal. Note: unless otherwise stated below, a proposal document will not be
                  incorporated in the resultant subcontract and will only be used for evaluation of your Proposal.
             d.   Commercial Proposal Volume: The following documents/information must be completed,
                  signed (when required) and submitted with your Proposal. They will provide the basis for the
                  commercial evaluation of your Proposal.

                  •   Offeror's Proposal Letter
                      A copy is attached Hereto for an Offerer's use. Proposals by joint ventures, consortia,
                      associations or partnerships shall designate one single participant to represent all those
                      forming the offering entity, and shall list the full names and addresses of all participants in
                      the offering entity. The name of the signatory shall be typed or otherwise clearly imprinted
                      below each signature, and a corporate offerer shall state its place of incorporation.
                      Evidence of the signatory's authority shall be included, if the offering entity is a joint
                      venture, association, consortia or partnership; if not, satisfactory evidence of the authority




    RFP No. 511017                                                                                       Page 3 of 18
        RFP ITO (Rev. 12.0, 11/1/18)                                                                Instructions to Offerers
                                                       Dated 11/20/2018

                           of any signatory shall be furnished when requested . This form may be found at
                           http://www.lanl.gov/business/vendors/supplier-forms. php.

                      •    Form 3500.00.2002.Representations and Certifications
                           If an offering entity is a joint venture, association, consortia or partnership, each member
                           entity must submit individual Representations and Certifications. The successful Offerer's
                           submittal will be incorporated in the resultant subcontract.
                           This form may be found at http://www.lanl.gov/business/vendors/supplier-forms.php.

                      •    RFP Form A, Schedule of Proposal Quantities and Prices
                           The proposed quantities and pricing shall be firm fixed prices for all work to be performed
                           pursuant to the subcontracts to be awarded as a result of the RFP . An offerer shall
                           complete the attached Schedule of Quantities and Pricing herein or reasonable facsimiles
                           thereof, inclusive of similar levels of itemization.
                      •    RFP Form B, Schedule of Proposed Quantities and Prices
                           The proposed schedules of quantiles and prices Form B shall correspond to Form A. An
                           Offeror shall propose a Target Completion Schedule for each milestone based on its
                           capabilities resources as well as its proposed work breakdown and time sequence.

                      •    Exhibit C Form A, Schedule of Proposal Quantities and Prices
                           A Sample Build document is attached hereto. This does not need to be returned with your
                           proposal, the successful offerer's submittal will be incorporated in the resultant
                           subcontract.
                      •    Exhibit C Form B, Milestone and Payment Schedule
                           A Sample Build document is attached hereto. The successful offerer's submittal will be
    )                      incorporated in the resultant subcontract.

                      •    RFP Form G, Offeror's Additional Representations
                           This form may be found at http://www.lanl.gov/business/vendors/supplier-forms.php.

                      •    Letter from Offeror's insurance company on Experience Modification Rate (EMR)
                           data
                           Submit the letter required by Exhibit F, Attachment F3-1, Safety Performance Eligibility
                           Requirements, with your Proposal.

                      •    Form 3191.00.0993 Small Business Subcontracting Plan
                           The successful offerer's submittal will be incorporated in the resultant subcontract. This
                           form may be found at http:/lwww.lanl.gov/business/vendors/supplier-forms.php.

                           Note: (1) You do not have to submit this plan if you claim an exemption within the Small
                           Business and Small Disadvantaged Business Subcontracting Certification in your
                           Representations and Certifications. (2) The following conditions shall apply when you are
                           required to submit a small business subcontracting plan.
                               1.       No subcontract will be awarded unless and until an acceptable subcontracting
                                        plan , if required, is negotiated with Triad and the approved plan is
                                        incorporated as a material part of the subcontract.
                               2.       As determined by Triad, an acceptable subcontracting plan must provide the
                                        maximum practicable opportunity for Small Business, Veteran-Owned Small
                                        Business, Service-Disabled Veteran-Owned Small Business, HUBZone Small
                                        Business, Small Disadvantaged Business, and Women-Owned Small
)                                       Business concerns to participate in the performance of the subcontract.



        RFP No. 511017                                                                                      Page 4 of 18
RFP ITO (Rev_12.0, 11/1/18)                                                                 Instructions to Offerers
                                              Dated 11/20/2018

                       3.     If an acceptable subcontracting plan is not negotiated with Triad within the
                              time limits prescribed , the Offerer shall be ineligible for an award. Triad shall
                              notify the Offerer in writing of the reasons for determ ining a subcontracting
                              plan to be unacceptable and allow adequate time for the Offerer to modify its
                              plan.
                       4.     Commercial subcontracting plans on a company-wide basis must have a
                              current Federal agency approval and are acceptable for commercial products
                              only.
                       5.     Master subcontracting plans on a division-wide or plant-wide basis must
                              contain individual subcontracting goals for the particular subcontract.

         e. Technical Proposal Vol ume: The following documents/information must be completed,
            signed (when required) and submitted with your Proposal. They will provide the basis for the
            technical evaluation of your Proposal. Note: Do not reveal labor rates or price information of
            any kind in these documents.

              •   Technical Requirements Document
                  An Offerer's Technical Proposal shall include narrative and graphics as appropriate,
                  providing responses/proposed technical solutions to each of the numbered sections of the
                  Technical Requirements Document included in this RFP. An Offerer shall incorporate it
                  Reponses/proposed technical soltuions directly into each sections of the Technical
                  Requirements Document. The Technical Requirements Document is provided in MS word
                  format to facilitate this proposal requ irement. The Scope of Work and Technical
                  Specifications for any subcontract (s) resulting from this RFP will be negotiated based on
                  the technical Requirements Document and the successful Offerer's responses/proposed
                  technical solutions.

             •    Technical Data Summary Sheet
                  A copy of this document is attached hereto. An Offerer's Technical Proposal shall include
                  this Technical Data Summary Sheet to summarize its proposed systems.

             •    RFP Form C-1, Lower-Tier Experience Statement
                  Submit a completed form for each lower-tier supplier or subcontractor that will be
                  performing work on the proposed subcontract. A copy of this document is attached
                  hereto.

             •    RFP Form H, Resumes of Key Personnel
                  A copy of this document is attached hereto.

             •    RFP Form I, Summary of QA I QC Program
                  A copy of this document is attached hereto.

             •    RFP Form N, Experience Statement
                  A copy of this document is attached hereto.

             •    RFP Form F3-2, Environment, Safety and Health Worksheet
                  This form may be found at http://www. lanl.gov/business/vendors/supplier-forms.php.




RFP No. 511017                                                                                     Page 5 of 18
RFP ITO (Rev. 12.0, 11/1/18)                                                               Instructions to Offerers
                                                 Dated 11/20/2018

4.       BASIS OF AWARD- BEST VALUE (Nov 2018)
         a.   Triad intends to award a subcontract resulting from this Solicitation to the responsive,
              responsible offeror whose proposal contains the combination of factors offering the best
              overall value to Triad.
         b. You shall provide a written proposal, fully compliant with these solicitation provisions.
            Proposals for other than the total Work defined herein will be considered non-responsive and
            may be rejected .
         c.   Proposals received in response to this Solicitation shall be evaluated using the following
              technical evaluation criteria in descending order of importance:
              1.   Technical Design/Function
              The program must continue to meet mission needs while adapting to sometimes radical
              changes in technology. Codes running on NNSA Advanced Technology Systems (Trinity and
              Sierra) in the 2019 timeframe are expected to run efficiently on Crossroads. The Technical
              Requirements Document of this RFP sets forth targets which if achieved will present what
              Triad believes to be an optimal solution that will meet current mission needs and provide a
              well-documented path to the next generation architecture technology. It is important to note
              that the scope of work and technical specifications for any subcontracts resulting from this
              RFP will be negotiated based on the successful Offeror's responses/proposed solutions
              responses to the Technical Requirements Document.
              Each Offeror's Technical Proposal shall include narrative and graphics, as appropriate,
              providing its responses/proposed solutions to each of the following sections of the Technical
              Requirements Document.
                         Scalability
                        System Software and Runtime
                        Software Tools and Programming Environment
                        Platform Storage
                        Application Performance
                        Resilience, Reliability, and Availability
                        Application Transition Support and Early Access to ACES Technologies
                        Target System Configuration
                        System Operations
                        Power and Energy
                        Facilities and Site Integration
                        Options


                   Each proposal will be upgraded where it exceeds a target and conversely downgraded
                   where it fails to meet a target.
                   Each of the proposals will be evaluated with the following technical design and function
                   considerations in descending order of importance:
                   a.   Knowing that all targets identified in the Technical Requirements Document may not
                        be simultaneously achievable, each proposal will be evaluated to determine which
                        proposal collectively best achieves the optimal solution of meeting current mission
                        needs while providing a documented path to the next generation architecture
                        technology:



RFP No. 511017                                                                                    Page 6 of 18
RFP ITO (Rev. 12.0, 11/1/18)                                                                 Instructions to Offerers
                                                 Dated 11/20/2018



                   b.   The extent to which the other additional features, components, performance
                        characteristics, or other properties proposed by Offerer provide added value to the
                        system .

                   c.   The extent to which the proposed systems' designs promote efficient hardware
                        problem identification and problem resolution with minimal system disruption.

                   d.   The extent to which the proposed systems' packaging effectively balances reliability,
                        power, cooling, and floor space requirements.

                   e.   The extent to which the proposed systems' computational capabilities and operating
                        environments are easily accessible and useable.

                   f.   The extent to which the alternate risk mitigation point design mitigates schedule risk
                        for the Crossroads delivery.


              2.   Performance Capability

                   Additionally, each proposal will be evaluated relative to the Offerer's Performance
                   capability - This criterion is comprised of the following sub-factors, which are of
                   approximately equal importance:

                   a.   The Offerer's experience and past performance in providing high-end capability
                        computing systems.
                   b.   Assessment of project risks with regard to the Offerer meeting the technical, support,
                        and schedule requirements of th is solicitation.
                   c.   The Offerer's experience and past performance in providing project management and
                        engineering services.


         If the SEC Chairperson determines it will be beneficial in evaluating Technical Proposals
         considering the Technical Evaluation Criteria stated above, the SEC may gather additional
         information by any of the following methods:
                                    Check references furnished by Offerers.
                                    Conduct site visits to Offerers' facilities.
                                    Request oral presentations of Offerers' proposals. Oral presentations
                                    may be scheduled for dates/times approximately ten (10) days after the
                                    scheduled proposal due date. Presentations will be limited to one (1)
                                    hour, followed by an appropriate time period for questions and answers.
         If additional information is gathered in accordance with these methods, that information may
         positively or negatively impact the SEC's evaluation and its determination of Offerers' technical
         ratings.
         d.   Your technical ability will be evaluated based on the data and information submitted in your
              Technical Proposal Volume that demonstrates your ability to meet the technical requirements
              of this Solicitation .
         e.   Proposals that are deemed to be technically acceptable will then be evaluated for total
              price/cost reasonableness and realism in relation to the proposed scope of work ahd technical
              specifications.




RFP No. 511017                                                                                      Page 7 of 18
RFP ITO (Rev. 12.0, 11/1/18)                                                                 Instructions to Offerers
                                                Dated 11/20/2018

         f.   Award will be made to the responsive, responsible offerer whose proposal contains the
              combination of factors offering the best overall value to Triad. Assessment of best value will
              be determined by comparing each offerer's proposal value in terms of the various proposed
              technical features to the overall proposed cost. Award may be made to an offerer whose
              technical proposal was rated highest, but whose price is not the lowest. In making this
              cost/benefit analysis:
                               [8]   All technical evaluation criteria, when combined , are significantly more
                                     important than cost or price. However, Triad will not make an award at a
                                     significantly higher overall cost to Triad to achieve slightly superior
                                     technical or management features.
                               D     All technical evaluation criteria, when combined , are approximately equal
                                     to cost or price.
                               D     All technical evaluation criteria, when combined, are significantly less
                                     important than cost or price. However, Triad will not make an award
                                     based upon a proposal with significantly inferior technical or management
                                     features in order to achieve a small savings in cost to Triad .
              A cost/benefit analysis will not be performed , if the offerer whose technical proposal was rated
              highest also has the lowest evaluated cost or price.
         g.   All communications by Triad with offerers shall be in accordance with the Triad Solicitation
              and Selection Process for Competitive Procurements, which may be found at
              http://www.lanl. gov/business/vendors/supplier-forms.php.

5.       PRICING INFORMATION/ DOCUMENTATION (Nov 2018)
         In order to assist Triad in determining whether your price(s) is/are fair and reasonable, you shall
         furnish the following pricing information with your offer:
         •    If the item(s) being procured are goods or services of a type offered and sold competitively in
              substantial quantities in the commercial marketplace (i.e., commercial items), provide
              published catalog or market prices. "Catalog price" means a price included in a catalog, price
              list, schedule, or other form that is regularly maintained by the manufacturer or vendor, is
             either published or otherwise available for inspection by customers, and states prices at which
             sales are currently;- or were last, made to a significant number of buyers constituting the
             general public. "Market prices" means current prices that are established in the course of
             ordinary trade between buyers and sellers free to bargain and that can be substantiated
             through competition or from sources independent of the offerers.
         •    If the item(s) being procured are not commercial items, provide copies of three (3) recent
             invoices showing the pricing offered to customers who have purchased the same or similar
             item(s) .
         •   If you have had a previous contract with LANS or Triad for the same or similar item(s), include
             that subcontract number with your offer.
         •   If the solicited item(s) are included in a current GSA Pricing Schedule, provide the GSA
             Contract Number and its expiration date.
         •   If your pricing is not documented through any of the methods described above, provide cost
             or pricing data in sufficient detail to enable Triad to conclude, after analysis of such
             information, that the final agreed-upon price for the item(s) being procured is fair and
             reasonable.

6.       OTHER AWARD CONSIDERATIONS (Nov 2018)
         a.   Triad may, if such action is in its best interest, reject any or all proposals, and waive
              informalities and minor irregularities in proposals received . Triad reserves the right to make a
              partial award, multiple awards, or make no award if it deems that decision to be in its best
              interest.




RFP No. 511017                                                                                      Page 8 of 18
RFP ITO (Rev. 12.0, 11/1/18)                                                                Instructions to Offerers
                                               Dated 11/20/2018

         b.   Neither financial data submitted with a proposal, nor representations concerning facilities or
              financing, will form a part of the resulting subcontract. However, if the resulting subcontract
              contains a clause providing for price reduction for defective cost or pricing data, the
              subcontract price will be subject to reduction if cost or pricing data furnished is incomplete,
              inaccurate, or not current.
         c.   Triad may, at its sole discretion, conduct a pre-award survey. A Triad survey team may visit
              your facility to determine your ability to perform . The team may also evaluate your system for
              determining the financial and technical ability of any proposed lower-tier subcontractors or
              suppliers. Any equipment to be used in performance of the proposed subcontract is also
              subject to inspection and approval. Failure to abide by this provision may be grounds for
              rejection of your Proposal.
         d.   The terms and conditions contained in the proposed Triad Subcontract will be included in the
              resultant subcontract. Triad does not intend to make changes to those terms and conditions,
              unless necessary to clarify the scope of work and/or technical requirements. Failure to accept
              the Triad terms and conditions may result in significant unacceptable delays in Triad's ability
              to award a subcontract and may result in your Proposal being deemed to be nonresponsive.
              Nonetheless, if you must take exception or suggest a deviation to a specific term or condition,
              complete Form OED, Offeror's Exceptions and Deviations, and submit it with your Proposal.
              This form may be found at http://www.lanl.gov/business/vendors/supplier-forms.php.
         e.   In accordance with Exhibit A, General Condition GC-60, Subcontracts with Contractor's Team
              Members and Team Member Affiliates (Nov 2018), no fee or profit shall be paid to any of
              CONTRACTOR'S Team Members or Affiliates.

7.       EXAMINATION OF SOLICITATION DOCUMENTS (Nov 2018)
         a.   If you plan on submitting a proposal in response to this Solicitation, you should examine with
              appropriate care all documents and all addenda made a part of this Solicitation, and inform
              yourself of all conditions which might in any way affect the cost or the performance of the
              Work. Failure to do so will be at your sole risk, as you will be deemed to have included all
              costs for performance of the Work in your Proposal. Should you find discrepancies in, or
              omissions from, the Solicitation documents, or should their intent or meaning appear unclear
              or ambiguous, or should any other question arise relative to the Solicitation documents, you
              shall promptly notify the Triad's Subcontract Administrator in writing as stated in these
              solicitation provisions. You will be solely responsible for its timely receipt by the Subcontract
              Administrator. Replies to such notices may be made in the form of supplementary
              correspondence or, as appropriate, an amendment to the Solicitation documents which will be
              issued simultaneously to all persons who have been sent this Solicitation by Triad.
         b.   If you desire an explanation or interpretation of one or more Solicitation documents, you must
              submit questions in writing no later than Ten (10) calendar days prior to the proposal due
              date. No oral inquires will be accepted . Oral explanations or instructions given before the
              award of the subcontract will not be binding on Triad. Any information given to a prospective
              offeror concerning this Solicitation will be furnished promptly to all other prospective offerors
              as an amendment to the Solicitation, if that information is necessary in submitting proposals
              or if the lack of it would be prejudicial to any other prospective offeror.

8.       OFFEROR'S MODIFICATION AND WITHDRAWAL OF PROPOSALS (Nov 2018)
         You may modify or withdraw your Proposal by written notice, provided that the notice is received
         by Triad's Subcontract Administrator prior to the proposal due date.
9.       DISCLOSURE OF PROPOSAL DATA (Nov 2018)
         a.   If you include in your proposal data that you do not want disclosed to the public for any
              purpose except for evaluation purposes:
              Mark the title page with the following legend:



RFP No. 511017                                                                                     Page 9 of 18
    RFP ITO (Rev. 12.0, 11/1/18)                                                                   Instructions to Offerers
                                                      Dated 11/20/2018

                             This proposal includes data that shall not be duplicated, used, or disclosed,
                             in whole or in part, for any purpose other than to evaluate this proposal.
                             The data subject to this restriction are contained in sheets [insert numbers
                             or other identification of sheet].
                  Mark each sheet of data you wish to restrict with the following legend :
                             Use or disclosure of data contained on this sheet is subject to the restriction
                             on the title page of this proposal.
             b.   If, however, a subcontract is awarded as a result of, or in connection with, the submission of
                  this data, Triad shall have the right to duplicate, use or disclose the data to the extent
                  provided in the resulting subcontract. This restriction does not limit Triad's rights to use
                  information obtained in this data if it is obtained from another source without restriction.
    10.      REGIONAL PURCHASING PRICING PREFERENCES (Nov 2018)


             In accordance with Appendix M of the Triad National Security, LLC (Triad) contract with
             DOE/NNSA, Triad will maximize procurement opportunities for Northern New Mexico (NNM) small
             business concerns and economic development companies representing the pueblos of Ohkay
             Owingeh , San Ildefonso, and Acoma by providing the following two pricing preferences when
             evaluating bids/offers submitted in response to a Triad solicitation.
             a.   In acquisitions exceeding $100,000, the price preference will be given by adding 10% to the
                  proposed total price/cost (including priced options) to an offerer's bid/offer whose business
                  does not meet the definition of a NNM small business concern.
                  1.    A NNM small business concern is a small business that is actively engaged in doing
                       -business in NNM, has an operative business location in NNM, and uses labor from NNM.
                        NNM includes the counties of Taos, Santa Fe, Rio Arriba, Sandoval , Mora, San Miguel,
                        and Los Alamos, and the eight regional Pueblos of Nambe, Picuris, Pojoaque, San
                        Ildefonso, Ohkay Owingeh (formerly known as San Juan), Santa Clara, Taos, and
                        Tesuque.
                  2.   If a business claims to be a NNM small business concern, it must demonstrate to Triad's
                       satisfaction when requested, through the submission of New Mexico gross receipts tax
                       and unemployment compensation tax forms or otherwise, that for the calendar year
                       preceding the submission of its bid/offer that:
                       (i)   it has been properly authorized to do business and has been operating in NNM with a
                             staff of three or more full time equivalent employees (of which 51 % must reside in
                             NNM), and that it currently has a facility in NNM that can support the business activity
                             contemplated by the Statement of Work / Scope of Work; or
                       (ii) it has historically operated in NNM with two or less full time equivalent employees who
                            reside in NNM, it is independently owned (i.e., its owner(s) exercise(s) close control
                            over operations and decisions which are not subject to control or the power to control
                            by others), its majority ownership interest is held by residents of NNM, it has been
                            properly authorized to do business in NNM and it currently has a facility in NNM that
                            can support the business activity contemplated by the Statement of Work/ Scope of
                            Work.
             b,   In addition to the pricing preference specified in paragraph "a", in acquisitions exceeding
                  $2,000,000 a price preference wiil be given by deducting 5% from the proposed total
                  price/cost (including priced options) of an offerer's bid/offer whose business is a part of the
                  Triad Pueblo Business Alliance.
             c.   Examples of the application of the regional purchasing pricing preferences are shown below:
                  Example A:
)

    RFP No. 511017                                                                                       Page 10 of 18
    RFP ITO (Rev. 12.0, 11/1/18)                                                                 Instructions to Offerers
                                                   Dated 11/20/2018

                       Offerer A (not a NNM small business concern) bids $1,200,000
                       Offerer B (is a NNM small business concern) bids $1,300,000
                       Offeror C (is a NNM small business concern) bids $1,400,000
                       Based on the pricing preference given to NNM small business concerns, an additional
                       10% will be added to Offeror A's bid for evaluation purposes. Consequently, Offerer A's
                       bid will be deemed to be $1,320,000 (i.e., $1 .2M plus 10%).
                  Example B:
                       Offeror A (not a NNM small business concern) bids $2,100,000
                       Offerer B (a NNM small business concern) bids $2,300,000
                       Offeror C (a NNM small business concern) bids $2,400,000
                       Offerer D (an Acoma pueblo business enterprise) bids $2,350,000
                       Based on the pricing preference given to NNM small business concerns, an additional
                       10% will be added to Offeror A's bid for evaluation purposes. Consequently, Offerer A's
                       bid will be deemed to be $2,310,000 (i.e., $2.1M plus 10%). In addition , based on the
                       pricing preference given to Triad Pueblo Business Alliance Companies, Offerer D's bid
                       will be reduced by 5% for evaluation purposes. Consequently, Offeror D's bid will be
                       deemed to be $2,232,500 (i.e., $2 .35M less 5%).


    11.      TRIAD PUEBLO BUSINESS ALLIANCE (Nov 2018)
             Triad formed a business alliance with 3 economic development companies representing the
             Ohkay Owingeh, San Ildefonso, and Acoma pueblos. To increase subcontracting opportunities,
             Triad will provide an additional price evaluation discount of 5% to participating Pueblo companies
)            when evaluating bids/offers submitted in response to a Triad solicitation.


    12.      SUBCONTRACTOR'S REGIONAL AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PLAN (Nov 2018)
             a.   Under the prime contract between Triad and DOE/NNSA, Triad is required to enhance
                  economic development and economic diversification of the Northern New Mexico (NNM)
                  region, which includes the counties of Taos, Santa Fe, Rio Arriba, Sandoval, Mora, San
                  Miguel, and Los Alamos, and the eight regional Pueblos of Nambe, Picuris, Pojoaque, San
                  Ildefonso, Ohkay Owingeh (formerly known as San Juan), Santa Clara, Taos, and Tesuque.
                  To achieve this end, Triad is flowing down this requirement in major subcontracts.
             b.   As part of your response to this Solicitation , state the total dollar amount or percentage of
                  amounts invoiced to Triad that you will commit to spend on economic development and
                  diversification of NNM during the term of the subcontract.
             c.   If awarded a subcontract, you will be required to develop and submit a Subcontractor's
                  Regional and Community Development Plan (SRCDP) that will detail how your financial
                  commitment will be used to support economic development and diversification in NNM. The
                  SRCDP will state your activities and goals for each year of the subcontract. See Table 1
                  below for examples of activities that enhance economic development and diversification.
                  Impacts that result as a natural course of performing the subcontract shall not be listed as
                  SRCDP commitments. Some of those impacts are:
                  •   Small business procurement requirements stated elsewhere in the subcontract.
                  •   Employment creation resulting from subcontract performance (i.e., hiring NNM residents
                      to perform subcontract work).
                  •   Corporate relocation or establishment of a company office to NNM solely to administer
                      Triad subcontracts.




    RFP No. 511017                                                                                     Page 11 of 18
    RFP ITO (Rev. 12.0, 11/1/18)                                                             Instructions to Offerers
                                                  Dated 11/20/2018

                                                                TABLE 1.
                                     Regional and Community Development Plan Categories
                  Activities will target populations in Northern New Mexico (NNM), defined as the counties of
                  Taos, Santa Fe, Rio Arriba, Sandoval, Mora, San Miguel, and Los Alamos, and the eight
                  regional Pueblos of Nambe, Picuris, Pojoaque, San Ildefonso, Ohkay Owingeh (formerly
                  known as San Juan}, Santa Clara, Taos, and Tesuque.

                                                                       Educational           Corporate
                  Economic Development (ED)                            Enrichment            Citizenship

                  Subcontracting with Northern New Mexico              Establishment or      Tangible
                  small business concerns. A NNM small                 participation in      support of civic
                  business concern is a small business that is         such programs         and charitable
                  actively engaged in doing business in NNM; has       as:                   organizations
                  an operative business location in NNM, and uses      • Academic            in NNM, such
                  labor from NNM .                                       awards;             as the United
                                                                       • Scholarships or     Way, Chambers
                  Entrepreneurship development such as                   cooperative         of Commerce or
                  protege/mentorship, new business creation,             agreements with     YMCA.
                  relocation of small business to NNM which              area schools and
                  employs local people, or provision of below­           colleges;
                  market priced or free office space.                  • Training ;          Employees
                                                                       • Student             volunteer time
                  Direct venture capital investment in local start­      mentoring; and      in community
                  up businesses.                                       • Apprenticeships.    service work.

                  Grant Pool Contributions.
)                                                                      Contributions to
                  Pro Bono Technical Assistance for the                Regional
                  region's ED initiatives (e.g. water, wastewater,     Educational
                  transportation, alternative energy,                  Foundations.
                  telecommunications, land use).

                  Financial contributions to ED organizations,
                  loan pools, and grants to ED initiatives.

                  In-kind contributions of volunteer time and
                  equipment to ED initiatives.

                  Sponsorship of ED Public Events such as trade
                  fairs, job fairs, and ED Forums and Roundtables.

                  Workforce development where the purpose of
                  specialized training programs is tied to immediate
                  employer needs and job creation , such as
                  construction/technical apprenticeships, special
                  skills training or professional training.

                  Establishment of corporate reaional office.


             d.   If awarded a subcontract, you will begin developing a SRCDP immediately upon notice of
                  award and shall deliver your proposed SRCDP to Triad's Subcontract Administrator for review
                  and approval within 60 days after notice of award . Your approved SRCDP shall be




    RFP No. 511017                                                                                 Page 12 of 18
    RFP ITO (Rev. 12.0, 11/1/18)                                                               Instructions to Offerers
                                                   Dated 11/20/2018

                  incorporated into the subcontract by reference through a subcontract modification, and shall
                  apply with the same force and effect as if incorporated in full text.
             e.   During performance of the subcontract, you shall maintain records, including receipts, payroll
                  information, and any other documents that demonstrate compliance with your SRCDP. You
                  shall submit reports to Triad semi-annually documenting your compliance with its SRCDP
                  and, if requested by Triad, you shall provide evidence to substantiate any statement contained
                  in a report.
             f.   You will work with :
                  •    The LANL Community Program Office, which will guide you with SRCDP formatting,
                       reporting, modification and evaluation requirements and procedures.
                  •    The Regional Development Corporation (RDC) or the LANL Designated Community
                       Development Organization, which will provide an orientation to economic development in
                       Northern New Mexico and assist you in selecting viable projects;
                  •    The Consortium of Major LANL Subcontractors, which will outline its strategy for pooling
                       resources to address regional economic development and assist you in project selection ;
                       and
                  •    The LANL Community Program Office, which will administer approved plans and
                       determine compliance with the plan's requirements.
    13.      NOTICE TO UNSUCCESSFUL OFFEROR(S) (Nov 2018)
             a.   Notice will be sent to unsuccessful offerors in accordance with the Triad Solicitation and
                  Selection Process for Competitive Procurements, which may be found at
                  http://www.lanl .gov/business/vendors/supplier-forms.php. However, for competitive
                  subcontracts over $150,000, in which a small business concern received a small business
                  preference, each unsuccessful small business concern will be notified by email of the name
                  and address of the apparent successful offeror prior to award of the subcontract.
}            b.   Unsuccessful Offerors may submit a written request for individual debriefings. These
                  requests must be received by Triad 's Subcontract Administrator within five (5) working days of
                  the date of offeror's receipt of Triad's notice of non-award. A debriefing provides an
                  unsuccessful Offerer the basis for the selection decision and an evaluation of the strengths
                  and weaknesses of their proposal correlated to the evaluation factors . A debriefing does not
                  provide a point-by-point comparison of the Offerer's proposal with other proposals. If a timely
                  debriefing is requested , the party requesting the debriefing will have ten ( 10) days from the
                  completion of the debriefing to file a Protest under the Triad Procurement Protest Process.
    14.      NOTICE CONCERNING NEW MEXICO GROSS RECEIPTS TAX (Nov 2018)
             a.   New Mexico Gross Receipts Tax (NMGRT) is unique to New Mexico and, unlike a sales tax,
                  is an excise tax imposed on the seller of certain goods and services in exchange for the
                  privilege of doing business in New Mexico. Additional information on NMGRT may be found
                  at http://www. tax. newmexico. gov/Businesses/gross-receipts. aspx.
             b.   Triad issues various types of New Mexico Non-Taxable Transaction Certificates (NTTC) to its
                  subcontractors, which entitle the certificate holder to take appropriate deductions from
                  NMGRT on its Combined Reports Form (CRS-1) that is submitted to the New Mexico
                  Taxation and Revenue Department. An NTTC issued by Triad to a subcontractor can only be
                  used to support that subcontractor's deductions; it does not entitle a subcontractor's
                  immediate and/or lower-tier subcontractors, including any individuals and entities that that are
                  issued an IRS Form 1099, to any deductions or exemptions from NMGRT under New Mexico
                  law. However, a subcontractor may be entitled to issue an NTTC to its immediate and lower
                  tier subcontractors under certain conditions. Consequently, each Offeror is encouraged to
                  consult with its tax advisor prior to submitting its Proposal if it has any questions regarding
                  NMGRT.
             c.   Since a subcontractor will be issued one or more NTTCs by Triad as appropriate, Triad will
                  not pay NMGRT to a subcontractor for work performed by its own employees. However, Triad


    RFP No. 511017                                                                                   Page 13 of 18
    RFP ITO (Rev. 12.0, 11/1/18)                                                              Instructions to Offerers
                                                  Dated 11/20/2018

                  may pay a subcontractor for NMGRT paid to its lower-tier subcontractors, if such lower-tier
                  subcontractors are not eligible for applicable deductions or exemptions from NMGRT under
                  New Mexico law and such ineligibility was justified in a subcontractor's proposal.
             d.   If awarded a subcontract, you shall complete and submit the New Mexico Non-Taxable
                  Transaction Certificate (NM NTTC) Form as specified in the form . The information contained
                  in the form will be used by Triad to issue appropriate NTTCs to the successful Offeror. A copy
                  of this.form may be found at http://www.lanl.gov/business/vendors/supplier-forms.php.
             e. This notice is not intended to provide tax advice. Triad's employees are not qualified or
                permitted to give tax advice.
    15.      ELECTRONIC FUNDS TRANSFER AUTHORIZATION FORM (Nov 2018)
             Triad prefers to transmit payment for invoices using the federal Automated Clearing House
             process. This process reduces the number of days it takes for a subcontractor to receive their
             money. If awarded a subcontract, you must complete and return the Electronic Funds Transfer
             Authorization Form directly to the Triad Treasury Department at the address shown on the form, if
             you have not previously done so. This form may be found at
             http://www.lanl.gov/business/vendors/supplier-forms.php.


    16.      SECURITY DOCUMENTS AND/OR APPROVALS REQUIRED PRIOR TO COMMENCEMENT
             OF WORK (Aug 2015)
             Exhibit G, Security Requirements, specifies all security documents and/or approvals that may be
             required prior to commencing work, in addition to security requirements applicable to subcontract
             performance.
    17.      STATEMENT OF WORK CONFIGURATION REVIEW
)            A configuration/solution will be negotatied with the successful offeror(s) based on the responses
             to the RFP Technical Requirements document issued with the RFP. The affirmation of agreed
             upon configuration/solutions for the Crossroads system will be documented through a bilateral
             modification to the Scope of Work and Technical Specifications for the build subcontract. Clauses
             for this provision are included in the Sample build Subcontract, see Exhibit B SC-201 .
    18.      SOFTWARE LICENSE AGREEMENT OR MAINTENANCE AGREEMENT (Nov 2018)
             Any software license agreement or any maintenance agreement that you propose shall be
             included with your Proposal. However, in order for the agreement to be made a part of any
             resulting subcontract, it must be approved in writing by Triad and incorporated by reference in the
             subcontract. In the event of a conflict or inconsistency between the terms and conditions
             contained in your software license agreement/ maintenance agreement and the terms and
             conditions of the resultant subcontract, the terms and conditions of the subcontract shall take
             precedence.
    19.      GREEN I SUSTAINABLE PRODUCTS (Oct 2014)
             Whenever possible, you shall offer green/sustainable products and repair/spare parts, which meet
             the (1) minimum content levels for sustainable products or (2) Environmental Program certification
             or (3) product attributes, listed at the Sustainable Facilities Tool website found at
             http://www.sftool.gov/greenprocurement. Minimum content levels, environmental program
             certifications and product attributes, if any, are listed under the column titled "Procurement Info"
             for each product.
    20.      TRIAD PROCUREMENT PROTEST PROCESS (Nov 2018)
             This Protest process provides Offerers with an opportunity to resolve concerns with a Triad
             procurement prior to submitting a demand to arbitrate, pursuant to the Agreement to Arbitrate.
)            Completion of this process is a prerequisite to fil ing a demand for arbitration pursuant to the
             Agreement to Arbitrate.


    RFP No. 511017                                                                                  Page 14 of 18
    RFP ITO (Rev. 12.0, 11/1/18)                                                                  Instructions to Offerers
                                                    Dated 11/20/2018

             Definitions
                  Agreement to Arbitrate means binding arbitration in accordance with the Agreement to
                  Arbitrate executed by Offerer and submitted with its Proposal.
                  Offeror is a legal entity submitting a proposal in response to a Triad solicitation.
                  Protest is a written objection , submitted by an unsuccessful Offerer after receiving a notice of
                  non-award . A Protest may be filed only by an Offerer that has submitted a proposal in
                  response to the Triad solicitation that is the subject of the Protest.
                  Protest Official is the official designated by LANL Laboratory Director to review and decide the
                  Protest.
             Note: A size challenge by an Offerer alleging that another Offerer does not meet the Small
             Business Administration (SBA) size standards for the given NAICS code is NOT a Protest. Triad's
             Subcontract Administrator shall refer the parties to the SBA, who shall make the determination ,
             which shall be final and binding upon all parties.
             Pre-Protest Resolution Efforts: Offerers who desire an explanation or interpretation of one or more
             Solicitation documents, must submit questions in writing in accordance with the Examination Of
             Solicitation Documents provision above. If an Offerer knew or through reasonable efforts should
             have known of an issue concerning the Solicitation documents and fails to raise that issue, that
             Offerer will be barred from raising that issue in a subsequent Protest.
             Prior to submission of a Protest, Offerers shall raise any concerns about the solicitation process to
             Triad 's Subcontract Administrator, who will use his/her best efforts to address concerns through
             frank and informal communications.
             Time for Filing a Protest: Upon notice of non-award , an Offerer, who believes that Triad's conduct
             was inconsistent with the Solicitation and prejudiced the Protester, may file a Protest. The Protest
             must be received by Triad 's Subcontract Administrator, who issued the notice of non-award , no
             later than ten ( 10) business days after the date the email is sent providing notice of non-award or
             no later than ten (10) business days after a debriefing. Protests that are filed prior to Triad issuing
             a notice of non-award, or more than ten (10) business days after the notice of non-award is
             transmitted, or more than ten (10) business days after a debriefing, will be dismissed as untimely.
             Regardless of the filing of a Protest, Triad may award the subcontract.
             Submittal of Protest: A Protest must be submitted to Triad's Subcontract Administrator in writing,
             preferably via email. Triad's Subcontract Administrator will then forward the Protest to the Protest
             Official, along with the Protest Record .
             Awardee Intervention: Upon the request of the Awardee, at the Protest Official's sole discretion ,
             the Protest Official may allow the Awardee to intervene as a party to the Protest proceeding
             (Intervenor).
             Confidentiality AgreemenUProtective Order: Parties to the Protest are required to cooperate and
             comply with the terms of a Confidentiality AgreemenUProtective Order issued by the Protest
             Official to allow the parties and their outside counsel appropriate access to solicitation-related
             documentation that contain proprietary information .
             Protest Content: A Protest must be signed and must contain the following:
                  •   The name, mailing and email address and telephone number(s) of the Protester and his/her
                      attorney, if any;
                  •   The Solicitation number sufficient for identification;
                  •   A detailed statement of the legal and factual grounds for the Protest, including a description
                      of Triad's conduct that was inconsistent with the Solicitation and prejudiced the Protester;
                  •   Copies of relevant documents; and
                  •   A request for a ruling and statement as to the relief requested , subject to limits specified
                      herein.
)

    RFP No. 511017                                                                                       Page 15 of 18
RFP ITO (Rev. 12.0, 11/1/18)                                                                    Instructions to Offerors
                                                Dated 11/20/2018

         No Discovery: Neither the Protester nor Triad will have the right to conduct discovery in this
         process.
         Protest Record : The Protest Record shall be prepared by Triad's Subcontract Administrator and
         submitted to the Protest Official within ten (10) business days of receipt of the Protest. The Protest
         Record will not be made available to the Protester in order to protect the confidential, competitive
         information related to other Offerors. The Protest Record prepared by the Subcontract
         Administrator shall contain the following documents:
              •    A complete copy of the Protest;
              •    A complete copy of the protested Solicitation and subcontract;
              •    A complete copy of the Source Selection Plan, when applicable;
              •    All documentation of the evaluation and selection process used, including any memoranda
                   or evaluation documentation generated by Triad;
              •    A complete copy of the Procurement Summary, if it has been prepared;
              •    A complete copy of the Protester's Proposal;
              •    Any correspondence between Offeror(s) and Triad with respect to the challenged
                   solicitation/subcontract;
              •    A memorandum from Triad's Subcontract Administrator which responds in detail to the
                   Protester's allegations;
              •    A recommendation for corrective action, if any; and
              •    Additional information and documentation considered relevant to the protested solicitation
                   and/or subcontract.
         Determination of Solicitation or Subcontract Suspension: Within ten (10) business days of
         receiving the Protest Record, the Protest Official will determine in his/her sole discretion whether
         to direct that the solicitation or subcontract be suspended. A decision to suspend the solicitation or
         subcontract may only be made if doing so is in Triad's best interest. Further, any decision to
         suspend the solicitation or subcontract may be reconsidered at any time while the Protest is
         pending. If the solicitation or subcontract is suspended, Triad's Subcontract Administrator will
         inform Offerors who might become eligible for award of the subcontract and request that they
         keep their Proposals open pending resolution of the Protest, to avoid the possible need for re­
         solicitation in the event the protest is sustained.
         Protest Resolution :
         A protest may be summarily dismissed by Triad's Subcontract Administrator if it has not been filed
         by an Offeror or its counsel.

         A protest may be summarily dismissed by the Protest Official if it:
              •   Has not been filed in a timely manner;
              •   Did not contain the required information ;
              •   Fails to state grounds sufficient to justify relief; or
              •   Is frivolous.
         If a Protest is summarily dismissed, the Protest Official will issue a written decision to that effect
         outlining his/her basis for the dismissal.
         If a Protest is not summarily dismissed, the Protest Official, upon review of the Protest Record ,
         will determine whether any additional evidence should be gathered.
         If the Protest Official deems oral or written arguments necessary to disposition the protest, he/she
         will establish deadlines for oral or written arguments.
         Standard of Review: The Protest Official is not required to limit his/her inquiry to the specific
         issues raised in the Protest. The Protest Official may uphold the Protest if he/she finds by a
         preponderance of the evidence that the conduct of those individuals acting on behalf of Triad was
         inconsistent with the Solicitation provisions and prejudiced the Protester. To find prejudice, the
         Protest Official must conclude that Triad did not follow the solicitation provisions and that the
         failure to do so had a significant adverse impact on the evaluation of the Protester's Proposal. The
         Protest Official has broad discretion to take actions necessary to determine if Triad was



RFP No. 511017                                                                                        Page 16 of 18
RFP ITO (Rev. 12.0, 11/1/18)                                                                     Instructions to Offerers
                                                 Dated 11/20/2018

         inconsistent with the solicitation provisions and whether any inconsistencies resulted in prejudice
         requiring that the Protest be upheld.
         Protest Decision: The Protest Official or designee will notify the Protester in writing of his/her
         decision and will specify the relief to be granted, if any. Triad and the Parties will not publicly
         release the Protest Decision unless required by law. The Protest Official may at his/her discretion
         allow Protester's or Intervenor's outside counsel to review the decision for proprietary information.
         Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Protest Official, at his or her sole discretion, will determine
         whether the Protest Decision contains proprietary information and whether it can be released by
         outside counsel to the parties.
         Relief: If the Protest Official concludes that the conduct of those individuals acting on
         behalf of Triad was inconsistent with the Solicitation provisions and prejudiced the
         Protester, as defined above, the Protest Official may direct that:
             •    the solicitation be amended to correct the deficiency(ies) and revised proposals requested
                  from all Offerers;
             •    the solicitation be cancelled and written notification sent to all Offerers of such
                  cancellation;
             •    the deficiency be corrected and the evaluation process be conducted again, if necessary;
             •    the subcontract be terminated and written termination notice sent to the subcontractor.
         No other types of relief may be granted.
21.      AGREEMENT TO ARBITRATE (Nov 2018)

Note: An Offeror must sign and return the OFFEROR'S PROPOSAL LETTER, which contains the
Agreement to Arbitrate shown below, in order to be considered for award of a subcontract.
This Agreement to Arbitrate (Agreement) constitutes an express contract between Offerer and Triad,
regardless of who is awarded the subcontract. As consideration for this agreement, Triad agrees to
consider the offerer's proposal for an award in exchange for the offerer's agreement to arbitrate as stated
herein . No arbitration may be initiated under this Agreement until an Offerer has complied with and
completed Triad's Procurement Protest Process, which is set forth in this Solicitation. Any
arbitration initiated prior to Offerer's completion of the Protest process will be dismissed for failure to
exhaust administrative remedies. The scope of any arbitration initiated pursuant to this Agreement will be
the issues raised in an Offerer's Protest and any new issues that were not and could not have been
discovered prior to or during the Protest process.
The Solicitation is not a promise to contract, either express or implied. Any procurement conducted by
Triad in connection with this Solicitation will be conducted solely at Triad's discretion. Triad reserves the
right to make any award, or no award, in connection with this Solicitation, in its sole discretion and in the
best interests of Triad and the Government.
By responding to this Solicitation, Offerer agrees that any controversy or claim arising out of or relating to
this Solicitation, any evaluation or selection process in connection with this Solicitation, or any award
decision based on this Solicitation shall be settled by an arbitration administered by the American
Arbitration Association in accordance with its Commercial Arbitration Rules and the provisions of this
Agreement. Judgment on the award rendered by the arbitrator may be entered in any court having
jurisdiction thereof.
(a)      Arbitrator
         An arbitration initiated under this Agreement shall be decided by one arbitrator. The Offerer
         initiating arbitration shall be provided with a list of at least five (5) potential arbitrators identified by
         Triad from the National Roster of commercial arbitrators certified by the American Arbitration
         Association. The Offerer shall select the arbitrator of its choice from that list, subject to the
         availability of the arbitrator and absent any conflicts of interest between the selected arbitrator and
         the Offerer.
(b)      Choice of Law




RFP No. 511017                                                                                         Page 17 of 18
    RFP ITO (Rev. 12.0, 11/1/18)                                                                    Instructions to Offerers
                                                       Dated 11/20/2018

             An arbitration initiated under this Agreement shall be decided under and governed by the laws of
             the State of New Mexico. The enforceability of this Arbitration Agreement will be determined
             under the laws of the State of New Mexico.
    (c)      Limitation of Remedies
             (i)       In no event shall an award in an arbitration initiated under this Agreement exceed the
                       actual, reasonable cost of the preparation of Offeror's proposal, plus actual and
                       reasonable attorneys' fees and costs incurred in the arbitration .
             (ii)      The arbitrator shall not under any circumstances award expectancy damages,
                       consequential damages, "lost profits" damages, special damages, punitive damages, or
                       any remedy or relief other than the remedy identified in subparagraph (i) above.
             (iii)     Any award in an arbitration initiated under this Agreement shall be limited to the relief
                       identified in subparagraph (i}, and shall not include any injunction, other equitable relief or
                       direction to any party other than the direction to pay a monetary amount.
    (d)      Arbitration Deadline
             Any demand for arbitration initiated under this Agreement shall be brought no later than thirty (30)
             business days from the Protest Official's final decision on an Offeror's Protest.
    (e)      Limitations on Discovery in Arbitration
             (i)       Within ten (10) business days from the appointment of an arbitrator, Triad shall file with
                       the arbitrator and produce to the Offerer a file consisting of all documents and other
                       tangible things relevant to the Offeror's claim and to the procurement action(s) which
                       is/are the subject of the arbitration (the Arbitration File). The Arbitration File will include a
                       complete copy of the Solicitation and proposed subcontract, documentation of the
                       procurement and selection process, correspondence between the parties that is relevant
                       to the arbitration , and all documents on which Triad relied in making the procurement
                       decision(s) that are the subject of the arbitration . The Arbitration File may be
)                      supplemented by either party upon approval by the arbitrator.
             (ii)      Discovery in the arbitration will generally be governed by the New Mexico Rules of Civil
                       Procedure for the District Courts, with the following limitations:
                       (A)         Each party will be limited to taking no more than three (3) depositions, unless the
                                   arbitrator finds good cause to permit additional depositions.
                       (B)         Written discovery shall be limited to no more than twenty-five (25) requests for
                                   production of documents, and shall not include interrogatories or requests for
                                   admission, unless the arbitrator finds good cause to allow discovery beyond the
                                   limitations of this paragraph.
             (iii)    The arbitrator may further limit discovery and/or issue any necessary protective orders as
                      provided in the New Mexico Rules of Civil Procedure for the District Courts.
    (f)      Standard of Review
             The following standard of review shall apply to the arbitration. The Arbitrator may only grant relief
             if he or she finds substantial evidence that Triad 's conduct was inconsistent with the Solicitation
             and prejudiced the Offerer. To demonstrate prejudice, the Offerer must show that there was a
             substantial likelihood that it would have received the subcontract but for Triad 's conduct.
    (g)      Costs of Arbitration
             The cost of the arbitrator's fees, any American Arbitration Association administrative fees, and
             costs of the arbitration shall be borne by the losing party.
    (h)      Locale
             The location of the arbitration shall be Los Alamos, New Mexico, or any other location mutually
             agreed upon by the parties.




    RFP No. 511017                                                                                        Page 18 of 18
