Department of Public Service
112 State Street              [phone]   802-828-2811
Montpelier VT 05609-3001      [fax]     802-828-2382
http://publicservice.vermont.gov/

                                           SEALED BID
                           REQUEST FOR PROPOSAL
    State-Owned Wireless Network Operator Request for
                       Proposals
ISSUE DATE:                             September 10, 2019

NOTICE OF INTENT TO BID                 September 27, 2019

QUESTIONS DUE BY:                       October 4, 2019

BIDDERS’ CONFERENCE:                    October 11, 2019

RFP RESPONSES DUE BY:                   October 25, 2019 4:00 p.m.

BID OPENING:                            October 28, 2019 11:00 a.m.



PLEASE BE ADVISED THAT ALL NOTIFICATIONS, RELEASES, AND AMENDMENTS
ASSOCIATED WITH THIS RFP WILL BE POSTED AT:
https://publicservice.vermont.gov/requests-for-proposals

THE STATE WILL MAKE NO ATTEMPT TO CONTACT INTERESTED PARTIES WITH UPDATED
INFORMATION. IT IS THE RESPONSIBILITY OF EACH BIDDER TO PERIODICALLY CHECK THE
ABOVE WEBPAGEFOR ANY AND ALL NOTIFICATIONS, RELEASES AND AMENDMENTS
ASSOCIATED WITH THIS RFP.

STATE CONTACT:                          Clay Purvis, Director for Telecommunications
TELEPHONE:                              (802) 371-9655
E-MAIL:                                 clay.purvis@vermont.gov
FAX:                                    (802) 828-2382




                                                       1
1. OVERVIEW:
    1.1.    SCOPE AND BACKGROUND: Through this Request for Proposal (RFP) the Vermont Department of
            Public Service (hereinafter the “State”) is seeking to establish contracts with one or more companies
            (Partner) that can operate a state-owned wireless network of small cell compact radios that provide
            Cellular Mobile Radio Service (CMRS) along Vermont highways.
    1.2.    CONTRACT PERIOD: Contracts arising from this RFP will be for a period of 5 Years. The State
            anticipates the start date will be December 1, 2019.
    1.3.    SINGLE POINT OF CONTACT: All communications concerning this RFP are to be addressed in writing
            to the State Contact listed on the front page of this RFP. Actual or attempted contact with any other
            individual from the State concerning this RFP is strictly prohibited and may result in disqualification.
    1.4.    BIDDERS’ NOTICE OF INTENT TO BID: Any bidder interested in receiving notifications about this RFP
            and participating in the question and answer period are advised to send a notice of intent to bid to the
            Department of Public Service by the date indicated on the front of this RFP. Bidders should provide the
            name of the company, contact information, and a statement indicating bidder’s intent to submit a
            proposal to this RFP.
    1.5. QUESTION AND ANSWER PERIOD: Any vendor requiring clarification of any section of this RFP or
         wishing to comment or take exception to any requirements of the RFP must submit specific questions in
         writing no later than the deadline for question indicated on the first page of this RFP. Questions may be e-
         mailed to the point of contact on the front page of this RFP. Any comments, questions, or exceptions not
         raised in writing on or before the last day of the question period are waived. At the close of the question
         period a copy of all questions or comments and the State's responses will be posted on the State’s web
         site
           https://publicservice.vermont.gov/requests-for-proposals
           Every effort will be made to post this information as soon as possible after the question period ends,
           contingent on the number and complexity of the questions.
    1.6.    BIDDERS’ CONFERENCE: The Department will hold a conference call with bidders to answer any
            remaining questions. The Conference will be held by phone. Directions for dialing in will be posted prior
            to the meeting date.
2. DETAILED REQUIREMENTS/DESIRED OUTCOMES:
    2.1. The State seeks a Partner to operate an existing wireless network to address the lack of wireless
         coverage in rural parts of Vermont.
    2.2. In 2011, the Vermont Telecommunications Authority (VTA) acquired a network composed of small cell
         compact Radio Access Network devices (RANs), which offer voice and text service 1 designed for
         attachment on utility poles, below the telecom space. The RANs provide service throughout an area with
         about ½ mile radius. Each site requires electrical power and broadband internet access for backhaul
         connectivity to the core network 2. Of the 401 RANs acquired, 163 have been commissioned, 30 have been
         installed but not commissioned, and 208 RANs are in storage. The State cannot guarantee the condition of
         the RANs. Bidders are encouraged to contact the manufacturer, Vanu, Inc,. for information regarding the
         operation of the RANs. The RANs were leased to Vanu CoverageCo, and were deployed and operational
         for some time. The company found the business model challenging and eventually electricity and internet
         services to the RANs were discontinued and the State terminated the equipment lease in 2018.
    2.3. The State conducted an open-ended RFP in 2018 seeking support to expand wireless coverage in the
         areas previously served by the RANs, potentially using the RANs. The State received two responses, but

1
  The RANs include software-defined CMRS radio systems with a chassis supporting two modules. All systems are equipped
with one module supporting GSM (GSM/EDGE/UMTS/HSPA) and another module supporting CDMA (CDMA2000/1xRTT);
both modules operate in Cellular and PCS frequency bands. Vanu, Inc. has stated that modules supporting 4G-LTE are in
development, so either the GSM or CDMA modules could be replaced with a 4G-LTE module in the future.
2
  All installed sites had access to broadband internet service, but the majority were served by DSL, and the previous operator
stated that the backhaul speeds available would not be sufficient to support 4G LTE service, even if the radios were
upgraded.
                                                                 2
            neither offered a conclusive solution to employ the RANs. Since the RANs were purchased with taxpayer
            funds, the State now more concretely seeks to identify a solution that would employ the RANs.
      2.4. The experience of the previous vendor and the results of the RFP indicate that that the business model of
           deploying service with RANs is challenging. In light of this, the State considered alternative sources of
           revenue to improve the business model. From May through July 2019, the PSD conducted a survey of all
           Vermont towns and villages to gauge the interest of towns in providing financial support for the use of the
           RANs to support expansion of wireless service. This survey identified 35 towns willing to provide financial
           support for the direct site-specific operating costs, including a.) electricity, b.) internet access, and c.)
           geolocation services 3. These towns expressed willingness to provide an average of $971 per site per year
           in operating support, for 2 sites per town. This amounts to a total of $67,970 per year that towns are willing
           to contribute toward the operating costs of 70 sites. These towns are listed in the table below.


              Vermont towns willing to contribute financial support
              Bakersfield     Grafton          Peacham       Thetford*
              Braintree*      Granville*       Plymouth      Vershire*
              Burke           Greensboro Randolph*           Waterford
              Cabot           Landgrove        Readsboro*    West Fairlee*
              Chelsea*        Marlboro         Shaftsbury    Westminster
              Chittenden      Marshfield       Shelburne     Weston
              Cornwall        Middlebury* Shrewsbury         Wolcott*
              Dummerston Morgan*               Stamford      Woodbury
              Glover          NEWBURY          Strafford*
              *indicates RANs installed in the town


      2.5. The pledge by towns for financial support for the 70 sites was based on sites installed on utility poles that
           require individual electric and Internet access services. Bidders may develop alternative lower support
           amounts for RANs it wishes to install on the premises of host institutions that provide electricity and/or
           internet access for sites in addition to the initial 70 supported sites.
      2.6. The table below lists additional towns that expressed an interest in having RANs operate in the town, but
           declined to offer financial support.


             Interested, but not willing to contribute
             Barton                  Orange
             Bolton                  Ripton*
             Calais                  Roxbury*
             Colchester              St. Johnsbury
             Groton*                 Stockbridge*
             Guildhall               Topsham*
             Hancock*                Saxtons River
             Jamaica*                Washington*
             Mount Holly
             *indicates RANs installed in the town


      2.7. The State has access to capital appropriation support up to $900,000 that can be employed for this
           project. These funds can be used for deployment of the RANs, including installation of RANs in new sites,

3
    The previous vendor, Vanu CoverageCo, reported that operating costs amounted to $1,800 per site per year.
                                                             3
         and recommissioning previously installed RANs. The previous equipment contracts allowed up to $3,800
         per site for installation and commissioning of sites on utility poles, the State anticipates that proposals
         should not exceed this amount. The State anticipates that recommissioning of existing RANs should not
         exceed $1,000 per site. At a minimum, bidders should plan to recommission two RANs in each of the 12
         identified towns with existing RANs, and install and commission two microcells in each of the other 23
         listed towns, and should provide a cost for this service, to be funded with the capital appropriation.
         Bidders may also seek capital funds to install additional sites at locations of its discretion, not exceeding
         the per site limits of $3,800 for new sites or $1,000 for existing sites. Funding will depend on available
         capital at the time of contract execution.
    2.8. The State seeks continued wireless service in the interested towns through a relationship with the Partner.
         This would require the State to lease the RANs to the Partner or the towns, potentially at no cost. The
         Partner would then commission these RANs with funds from the capital appropriation. It would also
         require the Partner to a.) obtain appropriate CMRS spectrum, b.) operate the network at its sole cost,
         including paying per-site operating costs such as electricity, internet access, and geolocation services 4, c.)
         obtain the financial contribution pledged by towns, and d.) enter roaming agreements with major CMRS
         providers. The remaining non-commissioned RANs may be deployed by the Partner at locations of its
         discretion. More detailed requirements are specified in Attachment A, Statement of Work.
    2.9. It is anticipated that the Partner will structure its roaming agreements to provide sufficient revenue to cover
         its general operating costs, and make up for any deficit in the site-specific operating costs not covered by
         the financial support offered by towns. The capital appropriation cannot be used to support operating
         costs. No additional funds are presently available from towns or the State to support operating costs.
         However, if the Partner finds that the business model does not support sustainable operation of these 70
         sites without additional financial support from the State or towns, the Partner should propose an amount of
         support that would be required, and the State will take this under consideration.
    2.10.       General Proposal Requirements. Every proposal must meet the following General Proposal
         Requirements:
        2.10.1. Each proposal should relate whether the Partner proposes to offer direct, or indirect extension of
              service in the areas.
        2.10.2. Demonstration of expertise in an area. Please limit any descriptions of personnel expertise to
              synopsis’ rather than full resumes.
        2.10.3. Statement that the respondent is in compliance with the tax laws of the State of Vermont.
        2.10.4. Each proposal must specifically identify those portions of the response that the respondent
              considers proprietary or confidential. Under no circumstances will a statement that the entire
              proposal is confidential be accepted.
        2.10.5. Each proposal must begin with a completed one-page Cover Sheet identifying the sections
              respondent is addressing.
        2.10.6. The contents of the proposal should follow the outline of the RFP.
    2.11.       General Proposal Evaluation Criteria. The State seeks to maximize the spread of cellular
         availability while realizing that it is more costly to provide service in some areas. In addition to specific
         evaluation criteria for the selected Funding Category, all proposals will be evaluated on:
        2.11.1. The feasibility of any proposed construction being completed and the proposed service being
              available soon.
        2.11.2. The ability to move swiftly into a contract soon.
        2.11.3. The most cost-effective use of State resources.
        2.11.4. The ability to demonstrate feasibility prior to contract signing.
        2.11.5. The long-term sustainability of the equipment/technology.
        2.11.6. The long-term sustainability of the business plan and accuracy of underlying assumptions.


4
 Pursuant to 47 C.F.R 20 and 30 V.S.A. 7055(d), CMRS providers must comply with E-911 “Phase II” locational accuracy
requirements.
                                                            4
    2.11.7. The value of information provided that enables the State to better focus its resources and strategy
          implementation.
    2.11.8. Demonstrated ability to successfully deploy and operate the solution
    2.11.9. Ability to cover the unserved areas of the State least likely to be covered by private investment.
2.12.        Specific evaluation criteria. The State seeks a Partner for a project that entails an admittedly
     challenging business model. Nevertheless, the State believes that a successful bidder will be a partner
     with a proven track record managing cellular deployments, and most importantly, financial stability
     necessary to ensure long-term viability of the project. Successful bidders will demonstrate the following:
    2.12.1. Evidence of substantial experience, technical, and personnel capacity to run a successful network
    2.12.2. Evidence of financial capacity to run a network, including previous, current, and pro-forma financial
          statements demonstrating financial health necessary to run the network.
    2.12.3. Roaming agreements with nationwide CMRS providers, or independent retail CMRS
    2.12.4. CMRS Spectrum – either owned or leased
    2.12.5. Business plan for deploying sites
2.13.        Respondent Guidelines. The State is highly motivated to identify a solution to the rural coverage
     challenges facing Vermont and has been encouraged to pursue all viable options. With this RFP the State
     has attempted to lay out its objectives, investment options, and funding constraints. It is expected that
     Respondents will propose creative solutions and the State will consider all proposals (within the identified
     constraints). It is understood that topology, technology, and usage profiles will likely drive different
     solutions. In addition to the evaluation criteria identified throughout this RFP the following overarching
     objectives will be the primary lenses through which any proposals will be reviewed. Respondents are
     encouraged to specifically address these two items in their proposals:
    2.13.1. Viability of Business Case: An overall assessment of the Respondent’s financial standing, the
          viability of the financial proposal, and an efficient use of State funding. Please include specific details
          regarding the planned business case (including identification of State funded components and any
          associated revenue streams). This will aid the State in fully assessing the viability of the proposed
          solutions.
    2.13.2. Carrier Readiness: The Respondents ability to demonstrate, to the extent that it is not already a
          retail carrier in Vermont, that deployment of its proposed solution will provide an attractive financial
          and technological offering that will entice retail carrier participation. Documented carrier
          commitments (whether firm or LOI) or partnerships will be weighted heavily in the evaluation.
2.14.       Contract Expectations. The State anticipates that the Partner will agree to:
    2.14.1. allow roaming by customers of any carrier requesting or agreeing to roam on the networks,
    2.14.2. operate the existing state-owned RAN network,
    2.14.3. propose an annual payment to the State for the lease of the RAN equipment, potentially including
          conditions under which the payment may be waived,
    2.14.4. agree to interface with redundant power back-up systems provided at the Resiliency Points,
    2.14.5. For the EDA-funded locations, supervise Partner’s third-party contractor in accordance with the
          Federal Funding Stipulations, to deploy and install the equipment in accordance with manufacturers’
          directions and specifications and respondent’s design, if required by ongoing federal laws, rules and
          contract provisions
    2.14.6. obtain the legal right to attach the RANs to utility poles or other real property,
    2.14.7. interconnect the equipment to telecommunications backhaul networks, power sources, and the
          public switched telephone network,
    2.14.8. obtain and maintain an interconnection with the handset radio signals in the CMRS frequency
          blocks licensed by the FCC sufficient to carry equipment operating on the frequencies licensed to
          national mobile services carriers in Vermont,


                                                        5
        2.14.9. test the Equipment with the result that calls initiated by authorized mobile telecommunications
              customers of certain national CMRS providers, whether those customer use standards compliant
              CDMA or GSM devices, will be able to initiate and sustain mobile voice calls connected to the public
              switched telephone network and data sessions, both continuously within and along each of the
              Corridors,
        2.14.10.        assume control and begin operating the state-owned system within 90 days of execution of
              the agreement, 5
        2.14.11.        set a schedule for deployment of remaining RANs with concrete milestones triggering
              payment for installation costs, and importantly, penalties for failure to meet the schedule,
        2.14.12.         develop a method to inform the State, and as appropriate, the public, about the operational
              status of commissioned RANs,
        2.14.13.         develop a protocol for the repair of disabled RAN units, at the Partner’s expense, and


3. GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
    3.1. PRICING: Bidders must price the terms of this solicitation at their best pricing. Any and all costs that
         Bidder wishes the State to consider must be submitted for consideration. If applicable, all equipment
         pricing is to include F.O.B. delivery to the ordering facility. No request for extra delivery cost will be
         honored. All equipment shall be delivered assembled, serviced, and ready for immediate use, unless
         otherwise requested by the State.
        3.1.1.Prices and/or rates shall remain firm for the initial term of the contract. The pricing policy submitted by
              Bidder must (i) be clearly structured, accountable, and auditable and (ii) cover the full spectrum of
              materials and/or services required.
        3.1.2.Cooperative Agreements. Bidders that have been awarded similar contracts through a competitive
              bidding process with another state and/or cooperative are welcome to submit the pricing in response
              to this solicitation.
        3.1.3.Retainage. In the discretion of the State, a contract resulting from this RFP may provide that the
              State withhold a percentage of the total amount payable for some or all deliverables, such retainage
              to be payable upon satisfactory completion and State acceptance in accordance with the terms and
              conditions of the contract.
    3.2. BEST AND FINAL OFFER:
        3.2.1.Best and Final Offer (BAFO). At any time after submission of Responses and prior to the final
              selection of Bidder(s) for Contract negotiation or execution, the State may invite Bidder(s) to provide a
              BAFO.
            3.2.1.1. The state reserves the right to request BAFOs from only those Bidders that meet the minimum
                     qualification requirements and/or have not been eliminated from consideration during the
                     evaluation process.
        3.2.2.Evaluation of Responses and Selection of Bidder(s). The State shall have the authority to
              evaluate Responses and select the Bidder(s) as may be determined to be in the best interest of the
              State and consistent with the goals and performance requirements outlined in this RFP.
    3.3. WORKER CLASSIFICATION COMPLIANCE REQUIREMENTS: In accordance with Section 32 of The
         Vermont Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (Act No. 54), Bidders must comply with the following
         provisions and requirements.
        3.3.1.Self Reporting: For bid amounts exceeding $250,000.00, Bidder shall complete the appropriate
              section in the attached Certificate of Compliance for purposes of self-reporting information relating to
              past violations, convictions, suspensions, and any other information related to past performance
              relative to coding and classification of workers. The State is requiring information on any violations
              that occurred in the previous 12 months.


5
 The Department cannot guarantee the condition of existing deployed radios. The Department may, upon request of a
bidder, allow prospective bidders an opportunity to inspect sites at pre-determined times prior to the bid due date.
                                                               6
        3.3.2.Subcontractor Reporting: For bid amounts exceeding $250,000.00, Bidders are hereby notified that
              upon award of contract, and prior to contract execution, the State shall be provided with a list of all
              proposed subcontractors and subcontractors’ subcontractors, together with the identity of those
              subcontractors’ workers compensation insurance providers, and additional required or requested
              information, as applicable, in accordance with Section 32 of The Vermont Recovery and
              Reinvestment Act of 2009 (Act No. 54). This requirement does not apply to subcontractors providing
              supplies only and no labor to the overall contract or project. This list MUST be updated and provided
              to the State as additional subcontractors are hired. A sample form is available online at
              http://bgs.vermont.gov/purchasing-contracting/forms. The subcontractor reporting form is not
              required to be submitted with the bid response.
    3.4. EXECUTIVE ORDER 05-16: CLIMATE CHANGE CONSIDERATIONS IN STATE PROCUREMENTS:
         For bid amounts exceeding $25,000.00 Bidders are requested to complete the Climate Change
         Considerations in State Procurements Certification, which is included in the Certificate of Compliance for
         this RFP.
         After consideration of all relevant factors, a bidder that demonstrates business practices that promote
         clean energy and address climate change as identified in the Certification, shall be given favorable
         consideration in the competitive bidding process. Such favorable consideration shall be consistent with
         and not supersede any preference given to resident bidders of the State and/or products raised or
         manufactured in the State, as explained in the Method of Award section. But, such favorable
         consideration shall not be employed if prohibited by law or other relevant authority or agreement.
    3.5. METHOD OF AWARD: Awards will be made in the best interest of the State. The State may award one
         or more contracts and reserves the right to make additional awards to other compliant bidders at any time
         if such award is deemed to be in the best interest of the State. All other considerations being equal,
         preference will be given first to resident bidders of the state and/or to products raised or manufactured in
         the state, and then to bidders who have practices that promote clean energy and address climate change,
         as identified in the applicable Certificate of Compliance.
        3.5.1.Evaluation Criteria: Consideration shall be given to the Bidder’s project approach and methodology,
              qualifications and experience, ability to provide the services within the defined timeline, cost, and/or
              success in completing similar projects, as applicable, and to the extent specified below.
              1. Proven experience and history of operating similar networks
              2. Business plan and pro-forma demonstrate a reasonable likelihood of success, including evidence
                 of roaming agreements, Vermont based spectrum, in-state staff or contractors, and capital outlay
                 necessary to bring the state-owned network online and maintain the system going forward.
    3.6. STATEMENT OF RIGHTS: The State of Vermont reserves the right to obtain clarification or additional
         information necessary to properly evaluate a proposal. Vendors may be asked to give a verbal
         presentation of their proposal after submission. Failure of vendor to respond to a request for additional
         information or clarification could result in rejection of that vendor's proposal. To secure a project that is
         deemed to be in the best interest of the State, the State reserves the right to accept or reject any and all
         bids, in whole or in part, with or without cause, and to waive technicalities in submissions. The State also
         reserves the right to make purchases outside of the awarded contracts where it is deemed in the best
         interest of the State.
    3.7. CONTRACT TERMS: The selected bidder(s) will be expected to sign a contract with the State, including
         the Standard Contract Form and Attachment C as attached to this RFP for reference. The contract will
         obligate the bidder to provide the services and/or products identified in its bid, at the prices listed.
        3.7.1.PAYMENT TERMS: All invoices are to be rendered by the Contractor on the vendor's standard
              billhead and forwarded directly to the institution or agency ordering materials or services and shall
              specify the address to which payments will be sent. Payment terms are Net 30 days from receipt of
              an error-free invoice with all applicable supporting documentation. Percentage discounts may be
              offered for prompt payments of invoices; however, such discounts must be in effect for a period of 30
              days or more in order to be considered in making awards.

4. CONTENT AND FORMAT OF RESPONSES: The content and format requirements listed below are the
   minimum requirements for State evaluation. These requirements are not intended to limit the content of a
   Bidder’s proposal. Bidders may include additional information or offer alternative solutions for the State’s
                                                           7
  consideration. However, the State discourages overly lengthy and costly proposals, and Bidders are advised to
  include only such information in their response as may be relevant to the requirements of this RFP.

  4.1. NUMBER OF COPIES:

      4.1.1.Submit an unbound original (clearly marked as such) and two (2) paper copies and one digital copy in
            PDF provided on a USB flash drive, or emailed to State.telecom@vermont.gov.
      4.1.2.The bid should include a Cover Letter and Technical Response and a separate Pricing Response.
  4.2. COVER LETTER:
      4.2.1.Confidentiality. To the extent your bid contains information you consider to be proprietary and
            confidential, you must comply with the following requirements concerning the contents of your cover
            letter and the submission of a redacted copy of your bid (or affected portions thereof).
      4.2.2.The successful response will become part of the contract file and will become a matter of public
            record, as will all other responses received. If the response includes material that is considered by the
            bidder to be proprietary and confidential under the State’s Public Records Act, 1 V.S.A. § 315 et seq.,
            the bidder shall submit a cover letter that clearly identifies each page or section of the response that it
            believes is proprietary and confidential. The bidder shall also provide in their cover letter a written
            explanation for each marked section explaining why such material should be considered exempt
            from public disclosure in the event of a public records request, pursuant to 1 V.S.A. § 317(c),
            including the prospective harm to the competitive position of the bidder if the identified material were
            to be released. Additionally, the bidder must include a redacted copy of its response for portions that
            are considered proprietary and confidential. Redactions must be limited so that the reviewer may
            understand the nature of the information being withheld. It is typically inappropriate to redact entire
            pages, or to redact the titles/captions of tables and figures. Under no circumstances can the entire
            response be marked confidential, and the State reserves the right to disqualify responses so marked.
      4.2.3.Exceptions to Terms and Conditions. If the bidder wishes to propose an exception to any terms and
            conditions set forth in the Standard Contract Form and its attachments, such exceptions must be
            included in the cover letter to the RFP response. Failure to note exceptions when responding to the
            RFP will be deemed to be acceptance of the State contract terms and conditions. If exceptions are
            not noted in the response to this RFP but raised during contract negotiations, the State reserves the
            right to cancel the negotiation if deemed to be in the best interests of the State. Note that exceptions
            to contract terms may cause rejection of the proposal.
  4.3. BACKGROUND AND EXPERIENCE. Provide details concerning the form of business organization,
       company size and resources; describe particular experience relevant to the proposed project, and list all
       current or past State projects.
      If a Bidder intends to use subcontractors, the Bidder must identify in the proposal the names of the
      subcontractors, the portions of the work the subcontractors will perform, and address the background and
      experience of the subcontractor(s), as above.
  4.4. REFERENCES. Provide the names, addresses, and phone numbers of at least three companies with
       whom you have transacted similar business in the last 12 months. You must include contact names who
       can talk knowledgeably about performance.
  4.5. REPORTING REQUIREMENTS: Provide a sample of any reporting documentation that may be
       applicable to the Detailed Requirements of this RFP.
  4.6. PRICING: Bidders shall submit their pricing information in the Price Schedule attached to the RFP.
       Bidders may be required to submit pricing information separate from their bid package if specifically
       required above.
  4.7. CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE: This form must be completed and submitted as part of the response
       for the proposal to be considered valid.

5. SUBMISSION INSTRUCTIONS:

  5.1. CLOSING DATE: Bids must be received by the due date and at the location specified on the front page of
       this RFP.
                                                         8
  5.2. The bid opening will be held at 112 State State Street, Third Floor, Montpelier, VT in the MEGA
       conference room and is open to the public.

  5.3. SECURITY PROCEDURES: Please be advised extra time will be needed when visiting and/or
       delivering information to 112 State Street.

  5.4. SEALED BID INSTRUCTIONS: All bids must be sealed and must be addressed to the State of Vermont,
       Department of Public Service, 112 State Street – Third Floor, Montpelier, VT 05602. BID ENVELOPES
       MUST BE CLEARLY MARKED ‘SEALED BID’ AND SHOW THE REQUISITION NUMBER AND/OR
       PROPOSAL TITLE, OPENING DATE AND NAME OF BIDDER.

       5.4.1.All bidders are hereby notified that sealed bids must be received and time stamped by the
             Department of Public Service located at 112 State Street – Third Floor, Montpelier, VT 05602 by
             the time of the bid opening. Bids not in possession of the Department of Public Service at the time of
             the bid opening will be returned to the vendor, and will not be considered. Any delay deemed
             caused by Security Procedures will be at the bidder’s own risk.

       5.4.2. The Department of Public Service may, for cause, change the date and/or time of bid openings or
             issue an addendum. If a change is made, the State will make a reasonable effort to inform all bidders
             by posting at

             https://publicservice.vermont.gov/requests-for-proposals

       5.4.3.All bids will be publicly opened. Typically, the Department of Public Service will open the bid, read
             the name and address of the bidder, and read the bid amount. However, the Department of Public
             Service reserves the right to limit the information disclosed at the bid opening to the name and
             address of the bidder when, in its sole discretion, the Department of Public Service determines that
             the nature, type, or size of the bid is such that the Department of Public Service cannot immediately
             (at the opening) determine that the bids are in compliance with the RFP. As such, there will be
             cases in which the bid amount will not be read at the bid opening. Bid openings are open to
             members of the public. Bid results are a public record however, the bid results are exempt from
             disclosure to the public until the award has been made and the contract is executed.

  5.5. DELIVERY METHODS:
       5.5.1.SECURITY PROCEDURES: Note that security procedures concerning delivery of any mail or
             parcels to 112 State Street, floor 3 may delay receipt of mail/parcel pieces by one business
             day.

       5.5.2.U.S. MAIL: Bidders are cautioned that it is their responsibility to originate the mailing of bids in
             sufficient time to ensure bids are received and time stamped by the Department of Public Service
             prior to the time of the bid opening.

       5.5.3.EXPRESS DELIVERY: If bids are being sent via an express delivery service, be certain that the RFP
             designation is clearly shown on the outside of the delivery envelope or box. Express delivery
             packages will not be considered received by the State until the express delivery package has been
             received and time stamped by the Department of Public Service.

       5.5.4.HAND DELIVERY: Hand carried bids shall be delivered to a representative of the Department of
             Public Service.

       5.5.5.ELECTRONIC: Electronic bids will be accepted.
6. ATTACHMENTS:
  1.   Standard State Contract Form, including Attachments A: Scope of Work, B: Payment Provisions, and C:
       Standard Provisions
  2.   Certificate of Compliance
  3.   Worker Classification Compliance Requirement; Subcontractor Reporting Form
                                                         9
4.   List and map of Commissioned Small Cell Sites
5.   Equipment Specifications




                                                     10
STATE OF VERMONT STANDARD CONTRACT FOR SERVICES Contract # ________

1. Parties. This is a contract for services between the State of Vermont, _____________ (hereinafter called “State”),
and _____________, with a principal place of business in _____________, (hereinafter called “Contractor”).
Contractor’s form of business organization is _____________. It is Contractor’s responsibility to contact the Vermont
Department of Taxes to determine if, by law, Contractor is required to have a Vermont Department of Taxes Business
Account Number.
2. Subject Matter. The subject matter of this contract is services generally on the subject of _____________. Detailed
services to be provided by Contractor are described in Attachment A.

3. Maximum Amount. In consideration of the services to be performed by Contractor, the State agrees to pay
Contractor, in accordance with the payment provisions specified in Attachment B, a sum not to exceed $________.00.

4. Contract Term. The period of contractor’s performance shall begin on _____________, 20__ and end on
_____________, 20__.

5. Prior Approvals. This Contract shall not be binding unless and until all requisite prior approvals have been
obtained in accordance with current State law, bulletins, and interpretations.

6. Amendment. No changes, modifications, or amendments in the terms and conditions of this contract shall be
effective unless reduced to writing, numbered and signed by the duly authorized representative of the State and
Contractor.

7. Cancellation. This contract may be canceled by either party by giving written notice at least thirty (30) days in
advance.

8. Attachments. This contract consists of ___ pages including the following attachments which are incorporated
herein:

        Attachment A - Statement of Work
        Attachment B - Payment Provisions
        Attachment C – “Standard State Provisions for Contracts and Grants” a preprinted form (revision date
                       12/15/2017)
        Attachment D - Other Provisions (if any)


9. Order of Precedence. Any ambiguity, conflict or inconsistency between the documents comprising
this contract shall be resolved according to the following order of precedence:
        (1) Standard Contract
        (2) Attachment D (if applicable)
        (3) Attachment C (Standard Contract Provisions for Contracts and Grants)
        (4) Attachment A
        (5) Attachment B
        List other attachments, if any, in order of precedence

STATE OF VERMONT STANDARD CONTRACT FOR SERVICES Contract # ________

                                                   Attachment 1-1
WE THE UNDERSIGNED PARTIES AGREE TO BE BOUND BY THIS CONTRACT

By the State of Vermont:              By the Contractor:

Date:                                 Date:

Signature:                            Signature:

Name:                                 Name:

Title:                                Title:




                                Attachment 1-2
STATE OF VERMONT STANDARD CONTRACT FOR SERVICES Contract # ________

                               ATTACHMENT A – STATEMENT OF WORK




The successful respondent will be required to

    1. Obtain appropriate CMRS spectrum;
    2. Enter roaming agreements with nationwide CMRS providers, such that the provider’s customers can access
       the service supplied by the leased network;
    3. Set an annual payment to the State for the lease of the RAN equipment, potentially including conditions
       under which the payment may be waived;
    4. Execute a lease-agreement with the state of Vermont for use of the state owned compact RANs;
    5. Take possession of the equipment and ensure against loss or damage;
    6. Obtain all necessary siting, and regulatory permits necessary to deploy the equipment;
    7. Take responsibility for maintaining and operating the network, including pole attachment make-ready and
       rental fees, electricity and backhaul fees at each site, cellular switching service, and E-911 regulatory
       compliance, and system monitoring and maintenance;
    8. Re-Commission the previously deployed RAN at 24 sites, and install and commission RANs at 46 sites, in
       the towns listed below:
           Vermont towns willing to contribute financial support
           Bakersfield     Grafton          Peacham       Thetford*
           Braintree*      Granville*       Plymouth      Vershire*
           Burke           Greensboro Randolph*           Waterford
           Cabot           Landgrove        Readsboro*    West Fairlee*
           Chelsea*        Marlboro         Shaftsbury    Westminster
           Chittenden      Marshfield       Shelburne     Weston
           Cornwall        Middlebury* Shrewsbury         Wolcott*
           Dummerston Morgan*               Stamford      Woodbury
           Glover          NEWBURY          Strafford*
           *indicates RANs installed in the town

    9. Develop a protocol to repair all RAN units that cannot be successfully re-commissioned, at the expense of
        the State;
    10. Set a schedule for deployment of remaining RANs with concrete milestones triggering payment for
        installation costs with penalties for failure to meet the schedule;
    11. Develop a method to inform the State, and as appropriate, the public, about the operational status of
        commissioned RANs;
    12. Develop a protocol for the repair of disabled RAN units after commissioning, at the Partner’s expense, and
    13. Obtain a performance bond for the installation of the remaining non-commissioned sites.




                                                 Attachment 1-3
STATE OF VERMONT STANDARD CONTRACT FOR SERVICES Contract # ________

                                ATTACHMENT B – PAYMENT PROVISIONS

The maximum dollar amount payable under this contract is not intended as any form of a guaranteed amount. The
Contractor will be paid for products or services actually delivered or performed, as specified in Attachment A, up to
the maximum allowable amount specified on page 1 of this contract.

    1. Prior to commencement of work and release of any payments, Contractor shall submit to the State:
            a. a certificate of insurance consistent with the requirements set forth in Attachment C, Section 8
               (Insurance), and with any additional requirements for insurance as may be set forth elsewhere in this
               contract; and
            b. a current IRS Form W-9 (signed within the last six months).
    2. Payment terms are Net 30 days from the date the State receives an error-free invoice with all necessary and
       complete supporting documentation.
    3. Contractor shall submit detailed invoices itemizing all work performed during the invoice period, including
       the dates of service, rates of pay, hours of work performed, and any other information and/or documentation
       appropriate and sufficient to substantiate the amount invoiced for payment by the State. All invoices must
       include the Contract # for this contract.
    4. Contractor shall submit invoices to the State in accordance with the schedule set forth in this Attachment B.
       Unless a more particular schedule is provided herein, invoices shall be submitted not more frequently than
       monthly.
    5. Invoices shall be submitted to the State at the following address: ________________
    6. The payment schedule for delivered products, or rates for services performed, and any additional
       reimbursements, are as follows: _____________
            a. The annual lease fee, as proposed by the Partner, shall be submitted within 30 days of execution of
               the contract, and annually after that, unless waived as agreed in the contract.
            b. The payment for the repair of the RANs that cannot be successfully commissioned shall be made
               after the units have been repaired and then successfully deployed and commissioned by the Partner
               in the new agreed location.
            c. The payment for installation of the RANs at non-deployed sites shall be the actual cost of installation,
               not-to-exceed $3,800 upon successful commissioning of each site.
            d. The payment for re-commissioning of RANs at previously deployed sites shall be the actual cost, not
               to exceed $1,000 upon successful commissioning of each site.
            e. If the Partner finds that that the business model, including the financial support pledged by towns,
               will not support sustainable operation of the 70 RANs, the Partner may propose an amount of
               additional financial support that may be necessary. Presently funding to support such a request is
               not available, but the State will take the proposal under advisement.




                                                   Attachment 1-4
                            ATTACHMENT C: STANDARD STATE PROVISIONS
                                  FOR CONTRACTS AND GRANTS
                                             REVISED DECEMBER 15, 2017

1. Definitions: For purposes of this Attachment, “Party” shall mean the Contractor, Grantee or Subrecipient, with
whom the State of Vermont is executing this Agreement and consistent with the form of the Agreement. “Agreement”
shall mean the specific contract or grant to which this form is attached.

2. Entire Agreement: This Agreement, whether in the form of a contract, State-funded grant, or Federally-funded
grant, represents the entire agreement between the parties on the subject matter. All prior agreements, representations,
statements, negotiations, and understandings shall have no effect.

3. Governing Law, Jurisdiction and Venue; No Waiver of Jury Trial: This Agreement will be governed by the
laws of the State of Vermont. Any action or proceeding brought by either the State or the Party in connection with
this Agreement shall be brought and enforced in the Superior Court of the State of Vermont, Civil Division,
Washington Unit. The Party irrevocably submits to the jurisdiction of this court for any action or proceeding
regarding this Agreement. The Party agrees that it must first exhaust any applicable administrative remedies with
respect to any cause of action that it may have against the State with regard to its performance under this Agreement.
Party agrees that the State shall not be required to submit to binding arbitration or waive its right to a jury trial.

4. Sovereign Immunity: The State reserves all immunities, defenses, rights or actions arising out of the State’s
sovereign status or under the Eleventh Amendment to the United States Constitution. No waiver of the State’s
immunities, defenses, rights or actions shall be implied or otherwise deemed to exist by reason of the State’s entry
into this Agreement.

5. No Employee Benefits For Party: The Party understands that the State will not provide any individual retirement
benefits, group life insurance, group health and dental insurance, vacation or sick leave, workers compensation or
other benefits or services available to State employees, nor will the State withhold any state or Federal taxes except
as required under applicable tax laws, which shall be determined in advance of execution of the Agreement. The
Party understands that all tax returns required by the Internal Revenue Code and the State of Vermont, including but
not limited to income, withholding, sales and use, and rooms and meals, must be filed by the Party, and information
as to Agreement income will be provided by the State of Vermont to the Internal Revenue Service and the Vermont
Department of Taxes.

6. Independence: The Party will act in an independent capacity and not as officers or employees of the State.

7. Defense and Indemnity: The Party shall defend the State and its officers and employees against all third party
claims or suits arising in whole or in part from any act or omission of the Party or of any agent of the Party in
connection with the performance of this Agreement. The State shall notify the Party in the event of any such claim
or suit, and the Party shall immediately retain counsel and otherwise provide a complete defense against the entire
claim or suit. The State retains the right to participate at its own expense in the defense of any claim. The State shall
have the right to approve all proposed settlements of such claims or suits.
After a final judgment or settlement, the Party may request recoupment of specific defense costs and may file suit in
Washington Superior Court requesting recoupment. The Party shall be entitled to recoup costs only upon a showing
that such costs were entirely unrelated to the defense of any claim arising from an act or omission of the Party in
connection with the performance of this Agreement.
The Party shall indemnify the State and its officers and employees if the State, its officers or employees become
legally obligated to pay any damages or losses arising from any act or omission of the Party or an agent of the Party
in connection with the performance of this Agreement.
Notwithstanding any contrary language anywhere, in no event shall the terms of this Agreement or any document
furnished by the Party in connection with its performance under this Agreement obligate the State to (1) defend or
indemnify the Party or any third party, or (2) otherwise be liable for the expenses or reimbursement, including
attorneys’ fees, collection costs or other costs of the Party or any third party.

                                                    Attachment 1-5
8. Insurance: Before commencing work on this Agreement the Party must provide certificates of insurance to show
that the following minimum coverages are in effect. It is the responsibility of the Party to maintain current certificates
of insurance on file with the State through the term of this Agreement. No warranty is made that the coverages and
limits listed herein are adequate to cover and protect the interests of the Party for the Party’s operations. These are
solely minimums that have been established to protect the interests of the State.
Workers Compensation: With respect to all operations performed, the Party shall carry workers’ compensation
insurance in accordance with the laws of the State of Vermont. Vermont will accept an out-of-state employer's
workers’ compensation coverage while operating in Vermont provided that the insurance carrier is licensed to write
insurance in Vermont and an amendatory endorsement is added to the policy adding Vermont for coverage purposes.
Otherwise, the party shall secure a Vermont workers’ compensation policy, if necessary to comply with Vermont
law.
General Liability and Property Damage: With respect to all operations performed under this Agreement, the Party
shall carry general liability insurance having all major divisions of coverage including, but not limited to:
         Premises - Operations
         Products and Completed Operations
         Personal Injury Liability
         Contractual Liability
         The policy shall be on an occurrence form and limits shall not be less than:
                  $1,000,000 Each Occurrence
                  $2,000,000 General Aggregate
                  $1,000,000 Products/Completed Operations Aggregate
                  $1,000,000 Personal & Advertising Injury
Automotive Liability: The Party shall carry automotive liability insurance covering all motor vehicles, including hired
and non-owned coverage, used in connection with the Agreement. Limits of coverage shall not be less than $500,000
combined single limit. If performance of this Agreement involves construction, or the transport of persons or
hazardous materials, limits of coverage shall not be less than $1,000,000 combined single limit.
Additional Insured. The General Liability and Property Damage coverages required for performance of this
Agreement shall include the State of Vermont and its agencies, departments, officers and employees as Additional
Insureds. If performance of this Agreement involves construction, or the transport of persons or hazardous materials,
then the required Automotive Liability coverage shall include the State of Vermont and its agencies, departments,
officers and employees as Additional Insureds. Coverage shall be primary and non-contributory with any other
insurance and self-insurance.
Notice of Cancellation or Change. There shall be no cancellation, change, potential exhaustion of aggregate limits or
non-renewal of insurance coverage(s) without thirty (30) days written prior written notice to the State.

9. Reliance by the State on Representations: All payments by the State under this Agreement will be made in
reliance upon the accuracy of all representations made by the Party in accordance with this Agreement, including but
not limited to bills, invoices, progress reports and other proofs of work.

10. False Claims Act: The Party acknowledges that it is subject to the Vermont False Claims Act as set
forth in 32 V.S.A. § 630 et seq. If the Party violates the Vermont False Claims Act it shall be liable to the
State for civil penalties, treble damages and the costs of the investigation and prosecution of such violation,
including attorney’s fees, except as the same may be reduced by a court of competent jurisdiction. The
Party’s liability to the State under the False Claims Act shall not be limited notwithstanding any agreement
of the State to otherwise limit Party’s liability.

11. Whistleblower Protections: The Party shall not discriminate or retaliate against one of its employees
or agents for disclosing information concerning a violation of law, fraud, waste, abuse of authority or acts
threatening health or safety, including but not limited to allegations concerning the False Claims Act.
Further, the Party shall not require such employees or agents to forego monetary awards as a result of such
                                                    Attachment 1-6
disclosures, nor should they be required to report misconduct to the Party or its agents prior to reporting to
any governmental entity and/or the public.

12. Location of State Data: No State data received, obtained, or generated by the Party in connection with
performance under this Agreement shall be processed, transmitted, stored, or transferred by any means outside the
continental United States, except with the express written permission of the State.
13. Records Available for Audit: The Party shall maintain all records pertaining to performance under this
agreement. “Records” means any written or recorded information, regardless of physical form or characteristics,
which is produced or acquired by the Party in the performance of this agreement. Records produced or acquired in a
machine readable electronic format shall be maintained in that format. The records described shall be made available
at reasonable times during the period of the Agreement and for three years thereafter or for any period required by
law for inspection by any authorized representatives of the State or Federal Government. If any litigation, claim, or
audit is started before the expiration of the three-year period, the records shall be retained until all litigation, claims
or audit findings involving the records have been resolved.

14. Fair Employment Practices and Americans with Disabilities Act: Party agrees to comply with the requirement
of 21 V.S.A. Chapter 5, Subchapter 6, relating to fair employment practices, to the full extent applicable. Party shall
also ensure, to the full extent required by the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, as amended, that qualified
individuals with disabilities receive equitable access to the services, programs, and activities provided by the Party
under this Agreement.

15. Set Off: The State may set off any sums which the Party owes the State against any sums due the Party under this
Agreement; provided, however, that any set off of amounts due the State of Vermont as taxes shall be in accordance
with the procedures more specifically provided hereinafter.

16. Taxes Due to the State:
    A. Party understands and acknowledges responsibility, if applicable, for compliance with State tax laws,
       including income tax withholding for employees performing services within the State, payment of use tax on
       property used within the State, corporate and/or personal income tax on income earned within the State.
    B. Party certifies under the pains and penalties of perjury that, as of the date this Agreement is signed, the Party
       is in good standing with respect to, or in full compliance with, a plan to pay any and all taxes due the State
       of Vermont.
    C. Party understands that final payment under this Agreement may be withheld if the Commissioner of Taxes
       determines that the Party is not in good standing with respect to or in full compliance with a plan to pay any
       and all taxes due to the State of Vermont.
    D. Party also understands the State may set off taxes (and related penalties, interest and fees) due to the State of
       Vermont, but only if the Party has failed to make an appeal within the time allowed by law, or an appeal has
       been taken and finally determined and the Party has no further legal recourse to contest the amounts due.

17. Taxation of Purchases: All State purchases must be invoiced tax free. An exemption certificate will be furnished
upon request with respect to otherwise taxable items.

18. Child Support: (Only applicable if the Party is a natural person, not a corporation or partnership.) Party states
that, as of the date this Agreement is signed, he/she:
     A. is not under any obligation to pay child support; or
     B. is under such an obligation and is in good standing with respect to that obligation; or
     C. has agreed to a payment plan with the Vermont Office of Child Support Services and is in full compliance
         with that plan.
Party makes this statement with regard to support owed to any and all children residing in Vermont. In addition, if
the Party is a resident of Vermont, Party makes this statement with regard to support owed to any and all children
residing in any other state or territory of the United States.

                                                     Attachment 1-7
19. Sub-Agreements: Party shall not assign, subcontract or subgrant the performance of this Agreement or any
portion thereof to any other Party without the prior written approval of the State. Party shall be responsible and liable
to the State for all acts or omissions of subcontractors and any other person performing work under this Agreement
pursuant to an agreement with Party or any subcontractor.
In the case this Agreement is a contract with a total cost in excess of $250,000, the Party shall provide to the State a
list of all proposed subcontractors and subcontractors’ subcontractors, together with the identity of those
subcontractors’ workers compensation insurance providers, and additional required or requested information, as
applicable, in accordance with Section 32 of The Vermont Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (Act No. 54).
Party shall include the following provisions of this Attachment C in all subcontracts for work performed solely for
the State of Vermont and subcontracts for work performed in the State of Vermont: Section 10 (“False Claims Act”);
Section 11 (“Whistleblower Protections”); Section 12 (“Location of State Data”); Section 14 (“Fair Employment
Practices and Americans with Disabilities Act”); Section 16 (“Taxes Due the State”); Section 18 (“Child Support”);
Section 20 (“No Gifts or Gratuities”); Section 22 (“Certification Regarding Debarment”); Section 30 (“State
Facilities”); and Section 32.A (“Certification Regarding Use of State Funds”).

20. No Gifts or Gratuities: Party shall not give title or possession of anything of substantial value (including
property, currency, travel and/or education programs) to any officer or employee of the State during the term of this
Agreement.

21. Copies: Party shall use reasonable best efforts to ensure that all written reports prepared under this Agreement
are printed using both sides of the paper.

22. Certification Regarding Debarment: Party certifies under pains and penalties of perjury that, as of the date that
this Agreement is signed, neither Party nor Party’s principals (officers, directors, owners, or partners) are presently
debarred, suspended, proposed for debarment, declared ineligible or excluded from participation in Federal programs,
or programs supported in whole or in part by Federal funds.
Party further certifies under pains and penalties of perjury that, as of the date that this Agreement is signed, Party is
not     presently     debarred,    suspended,      nor    named       on      the    State’s    debarment     list    at:
http://bgs.vermont.gov/purchasing/debarment

23. Conflict of Interest: Party shall fully disclose, in writing, any conflicts of interest or potential conflicts
of interest.

24. Confidentiality: Party acknowledges and agrees that this Agreement and any and all information
obtained by the State from the Party in connection with this Agreement are subject to the State of Vermont
Access to Public Records Act, 1 V.S.A. § 315 et seq.

25. Force Majeure: Neither the State nor the Party shall be liable to the other for any failure or delay of
performance of any obligations under this Agreement to the extent such failure or delay shall have been
wholly or principally caused by acts or events beyond its reasonable control rendering performance illegal
or impossible (excluding strikes or lock-outs) (“Force Majeure”). Where Force Majeure is asserted, the
nonperforming party must prove that it made all reasonable efforts to remove, eliminate or minimize such
cause of delay or damages, diligently pursued performance of its obligations under this Agreement,
substantially fulfilled all non-excused obligations, and timely notified the other party of the likelihood or
actual occurrence of an event described in this paragraph.

26. Marketing: Party shall not refer to the State in any publicity materials, information pamphlets, press
releases, research reports, advertising, sales promotions, trade shows, or marketing materials or similar
communications to third parties except with the prior written consent of the State.

27. Termination:

                                                    Attachment 1-8
    A. Non-Appropriation: If this Agreement extends into more than one fiscal year of the State (July 1 to June
       30), and if appropriations are insufficient to support this Agreement, the State may cancel at the end of the
       fiscal year, or otherwise upon the expiration of existing appropriation authority. In the case that this
       Agreement is a Grant that is funded in whole or in part by Federal funds, and in the event Federal funds
       become unavailable or reduced, the State may suspend or cancel this Grant immediately, and the State shall
       have no obligation to pay Subrecipient from State revenues.
    B. Termination for Cause: Either party may terminate this Agreement if a party materially breaches its
       obligations under this Agreement, and such breach is not cured within thirty (30) days after delivery of the
       non-breaching party’s notice or such longer time as the non-breaching party may specify in the notice.
    C. Termination Assistance: Upon nearing the end of the final term or termination of this Agreement, without
       respect to cause, the Party shall take all reasonable and prudent measures to facilitate any transition required
       by the State. All State property, tangible and intangible, shall be returned to the State upon demand at no
       additional cost to the State in a format acceptable to the State.
28. Continuity of Performance: In the event of a dispute between the Party and the State, each party will
continue to perform its obligations under this Agreement during the resolution of the dispute until this
Agreement is terminated in accordance with its terms.

29. No Implied Waiver of Remedies: Either party’s delay or failure to exercise any right, power or remedy
under this Agreement shall not impair any such right, power or remedy, or be construed as a waiver of any
such right, power or remedy. All waivers must be in writing.

30. State Facilities: If the State makes space available to the Party in any State facility during the term of
this Agreement for purposes of the Party’s performance under this Agreement, the Party shall only use the
space in accordance with all policies and procedures governing access to and use of State facilities which
shall be made available upon request. State facilities will be made available to Party on an “AS IS, WHERE
IS” basis, with no warranties whatsoever.

31. Requirements Pertaining Only to Federal Grants and Subrecipient Agreements: If this Agreement is a grant
that is funded in whole or in part by Federal funds:
     A. Requirement to Have a Single Audit: The Subrecipient will complete the Subrecipient Annual Report
          annually within 45 days after its fiscal year end, informing the State of Vermont whether or not a Single
          Audit is required for the prior fiscal year. If a Single Audit is required, the Subrecipient will submit a copy
          of the audit report to the granting Party within 9 months. If a single audit is not required, only the Subrecipient
          Annual Report is required.
          For fiscal years ending before December 25, 2015, a Single Audit is required if the subrecipient expends
          $500,000 or more in Federal assistance during its fiscal year and must be conducted in accordance with OMB
          Circular A-133. For fiscal years ending on or after December 25, 2015, a Single Audit is required if the
          subrecipient expends $750,000 or more in Federal assistance during its fiscal year and must be conducted in
          accordance with 2 CFR Chapter I, Chapter II, Part 200, Subpart F. The Subrecipient Annual Report is
          required to be submitted within 45 days, whether or not a Single Audit is required.
     B. Internal Controls: In accordance with 2 CFR Part II, §200.303, the Party must establish and maintain
          effective internal control over the Federal award to provide reasonable assurance that the Party is managing
          the Federal award in compliance with Federal statutes, regulations, and the terms and conditions of the award.
          These internal controls should be in compliance with guidance in “Standards for Internal Control in the
          Federal Government” issued by the Comptroller General of the United States and the “Internal Control
          Integrated Framework”, issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission
          (COSO).
     C. Mandatory Disclosures: In accordance with 2 CFR Part II, §200.113, Party must disclose, in a timely
          manner, in writing to the State, all violations of Federal criminal law involving fraud, bribery, or gratuity
          violations potentially affecting the Federal award. Failure to make required disclosures may result in the

                                                      Attachment 1-9
       imposition of sanctions which may include disallowance of costs incurred, withholding of payments,
       termination of the Agreement, suspension/debarment, etc.

32. Requirements Pertaining Only to State-Funded Grants:
   A. Certification Regarding Use of State Funds: If Party is an employer and this Agreement is a State-funded
      grant in excess of $1,001, Party certifies that none of these State funds will be used to interfere with or restrain
      the exercise of Party’s employee’s rights with respect to unionization.
   B. Good Standing Certification (Act 154 of 2016): If this Agreement is a State-funded grant, Party hereby
      represents: (i) that it has signed and provided to the State the form prescribed by the Secretary of
      Administration for purposes of certifying that it is in good standing (as provided in Section 13(a)(2) of Act
      154) with the Agency of Natural Resources and the Agency of Agriculture, Food and Markets, or otherwise
      explaining the circumstances surrounding the inability to so certify, and (ii) that it will comply with the
      requirements stated therein.


                                           (End of Standard Provisions)




                                                   Attachment 1-10
                                                                                                    RFP/PROJECT:
                                                                                                            DATE:
                                                                                                        Page 1 of 3
                                    CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE

For a bid to be considered valid, this form must be completed in its entirety, executed by a duly authorized
representative of the bidder, and submitted as part of the response to the proposal.


   A. NON COLLUSION: Bidder hereby certifies that the prices quoted have been arrived at without collusion
      and that no prior information concerning these prices has been received from or given to a competitive
      company. If there is sufficient evidence to warrant investigation of the bid/contract process by the Office of
      the Attorney General, bidder understands that this paragraph might be used as a basis for litigation.

   B. CONTRACT TERMS: Bidder hereby acknowledges that is has read, understands and agrees to the terms
      of this RFP, including Attachment C: Standard State Contract Provisions, and any other contract
      attachments included with this RFP.


   C. FORM OF PAYMENT: Does Bidder accept the Visa Purchasing Card as a form of payment?

       ____ Yes ____ No

   D. WORKER CLASSIFICATION COMPLIANCE REQUIREMENT: In accordance with Section 32 of The
      Vermont Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (Act No. 54), the following provisions and requirements
      apply to Bidder when the amount of its bid exceeds $250,000.00.

       Self-Reporting. Bidder hereby self-reports the following information relating to past violations, convictions,
       suspensions, and any other information related to past performance relative to coding and classification of
       workers, that occurred in the previous 12 months.

              Summary of Detailed                  Date of Notification                   Outcome
                 Information




       Subcontractor Reporting. Bidder hereby acknowledges and agrees that if it is a successful bidder, prior to
       execution of any contract resulting from this RFP, Bidder will provide to the State a list of all proposed
       subcontractors and subcontractors’ subcontractors, together with the identity of those subcontractors’ workers
       compensation insurance providers, and additional required or requested information, as applicable, in
       accordance with Section 32 of The Vermont Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (Act No. 54), and Bidder
       will provide any update of such list to the State as additional subcontractors are hired. Bidder further
       acknowledges and agrees that the failure to submit subcontractor reporting in accordance with Section 32 of
       The Vermont Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (Act No. 54) will constitute non-compliance and may
       result in cancellation of contract and/or restriction from bidding on future state contracts.




                                                  Attachment 2-1
                                                                                             RFP/PROJECT:
                                                                                                     DATE:
                                                                                                 Page 2 of 3

E. Executive Order 05 – 16: Climate Change Considerations in State Procurements Certification

   Bidder certifies to the following (Bidder may attach any desired explanation or substantiation.
   Please also note that Bidder may be asked to provide documentation for any applicable claims):

   1. Bidder owns, leases or utilizes, for business purposes, space that has received:
       Energy Star® Certification
       LEED®, Green Globes®, or Living Buildings Challenge℠ Certification
       Other internationally recognized building certification:

   ____________________________________________________________________________

   2. Bidder has received incentives or rebates from an Energy Efficiency Utility or Energy Efficiency
      Program in the last five years for energy efficient improvements made at bidder’s place of business.
      Please explain:

   _____________________________________________________________________________

   3. Please Check all that apply:
       Bidder can claim on-site renewable power or anaerobic-digester power (“cow-power”). Or bidder
          consumes renewable electricity through voluntary purchase or offset, provided no such claimed
          power can be double-claimed by another party.
       Bidder uses renewable biomass or bio-fuel for the purposes of thermal (heat) energy at its place of
          business.
       Bidder’s heating system has modern, high-efficiency units (boilers, furnaces, stoves, etc.), having
          reduced emissions of particulate matter and other air pollutants.
       Bidder tracks its energy consumption and harmful greenhouse gas emissions. What tool is used to
          do this? _____________________
       Bidder promotes the use of plug-in electric vehicles by providing electric vehicle charging, electric
          fleet vehicles, preferred parking, designated parking, purchase or lease incentives, etc..
       Bidder offers employees an option for a fossil fuel divestment retirement account.
       Bidder offers products or services that reduce waste, conserve water, or promote energy efficiency
          and conservation. Please explain:


   ____________________________________________________________________________

   ____________________________________________________________________________


   4. Please list any additional practices that promote clean energy and take action to address climate
      change:

   _____________________________________________________________________________

   ____________________________________________________________________________

   _____________________________________________________________________________
                                                                                             RFP/PROJECT:
                                                                                                     DATE:
                                                                                                 Page 3 of 3



                                            Attachment 2-2
      F. Acknowledge receipt of the following Addenda:

             Addendum No.:                               Dated:

             Addendum No.:                               Dated:

             Addendum No.:                               Dated:



Bidder Name:                                             Contact Name:

Address:                                                 Fax Number:

                                                         Telephone:

                                                         E-Mail:

By:                                                      Name:
         Signature of Bidder (or Representative)                   (Type or Print)



                                    END OF CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE




                                                   Attachment 2-3
                                                                                                       RFP/PROJECT:
                                                                                                              DATE:

                           WORKER CLASSIFICATION COMPLIANCE REQUIREMENT

                                                     Self Reporting
                                                      Form 1 of 1

This form must be completed in its entirety and submitted as part of the response for the proposal to be
considered valid.

The Department of Buildings and General Services in accordance with Act 54, Section 32 of the Acts of 2009 and for
total projects costs exceeding $250,000.00, requires bidders comply with the following provisions and requirements.

Bidder is required to self report the following information relating to past violations, convictions, suspensions, and
any other information related to past performance relative to coding and classification for worker’s compensation.
The state is requiring information on any violations that occurred in the previous 12 months.

          Summary of Detailed Information              Date of Notification                   Outcome




WORKER CLASSIFICATION COMPLIANCE REQUIREMENT: Bidder hereby certifies that the company/individual
is in compliance with the requirements as detailed in Act 54, Section 32 of the Acts of 2009.

Date:

Name of Company:                                           Contact Name:

Address:                                                   Title:

                                                           Phone Number:

E-mail:                                                    Fax Number:

By:                                                        Name:
          Signature (Bid Not Valid Unless Signed)*                  (Type or Print)

*Form must be signed by individual authorized to sign on the bidder’s behalf.




                                                     Attachment 3-1
                                                                                                       RFP/PROJECT:
                                                                                                              DATE:

                           WORKER CLASSIFICATION COMPLIANCE REQUIREMENT

                                           Subcontractor Reporting Form

This form must be completed in its entirety and submitted prior to contract execution and updated as
necessary and provided to the State as additional subcontractors are hired.


The Department of Buildings and General Services in accordance with Act 54, Section 32 of the Acts of 2009 and for
total project costs exceeding $250,000.00 requires bidders to comply with the following provisions and requirements.

Contractor is required to provide a list of subcontractors on the job along with lists of subcontractor’s subcontractors
and by whom those subcontractors are insured of workers. Include additional pages if necessary. This is not a
requirement for subcontractor’s providing supplies only and no labor to the overall contract or project.

          Subcontractor                Insured By                   Subcontractor’s Sub               Insured By




Date:

Name of Company:                                           Contact Name:

Address:                                                   Title:

                                                           Phone Number:

E-mail:                                                    Fax Number:

By:                                                        Name:

Failure to adhere to Act 54, Section 32 of the Acts of 2009 and submit Subcontractor Reporting: Worker
Classification Compliance Requirement will constitute non-compliance and may result in cancellation of contract
and/or forfeiture of future bidding privileges until resolved.

Send Completed Form to:          Office of Purchasing & Contracting
                                 109 State Street
                                 Montpelier, VT 05609-3001
                                 Attention: Contract Administration



                                                    Attachment 3-2
