USI Insurance Services

Request for Proposal
Franklin County, Virginia


Medical/Rx Coverage
          Effective Date: July 1, 2020
          Release Date: October 30, 2019
          Proposal Due Date: November 19, 2019




Prepared by:
Celeste Kane, Account Executive

USI Insurance Services
4840 Cox Road, Suite 150
Glen Allen, VA 23060
804.729.9819 phone
Franklin County
Request for Proposal for Medical Coverage



RFP Signature Sheet
Franklin County, Virginia
 The undersigned is familiar with the specifications and other information as supplied in this Request
 for Proposal and understands that the County of Franklin will not be responsible for any errors or
 omissions on the part of the undersigned in making up the proposal. Any deviations or exceptions must
 be fully explained in writing by the undersigned.

 It is understood that the County of Franklin reserves the right to reject any or all proposals or any part
 thereof, or to accept any proposal or any part thereof, and to waive any informalities in any proposal
 deemed to be in the best interest of the County of Franklin. The undersigned agrees that the proposal
 submitted shall remain open and available to contract by the County of Franklin for a July 1, 2020
 effective date.

 The undersigned agrees and understands that this request is for a proposal and is willing to discuss all
 proposals with the County of Franklin’s Insurance Consultant and is willing to negotiate with the
 Consultant as required.

 My signature also certifies that this firm has no business or personal relationships with any other
 companies or persons that could be considered as a conflict of interest or potential conflict of interest to
 the County of Franklin, and that there are no principals, officers, agents, employees, or representatives of
 this firm that have any business or personal relationships with any other companies or persons that could
 be considered as a conflict of interest or a potential conflict of interest to the County of Franklin pertaining
 to any and all work or services to be performed as a result of this request and any resulting contract with
 the County of Franklin:


  Name of Firm

  Address



  E-mail Address

  Signature
  Name
  (Typed/Printed)

  Title

  Telephone

  Date



This signature sheet must be returned with your proposal, as it shall be a part of your response. It
must be included to receive consideration for award of business.


                                                           1                             USI Insurance Services
Franklin County
Request for Proposal for Medical Coverage


     PURPOSE: The purpose and intent of this Request for Proposal (RFP) is to solicit formal sealed
     proposals from qualified sources to establish a contract(s) through competitive negotiations associated
     with providing a group medical/prescription drug program to the employees of the County of Franklin
     (hereafter referred to as the “County”).

     The objectives and intent of this RFP:

     1. To provide employees with a quality, affordable medical/prescription drug program and wellness
        program responsive to the needs of employees;

     2. To partner with a carrier to ensure costs are managed effectively by taking advantage of cost and
        utilization management opportunities available in the marketplace while maintaining quality.

     BACKGROUND: The County of Franklin has retained USI Insurance as their healthcare program
     consultant. Services of the consultant may include, but are not limited to, the analysis of existing benefit
     designs and funding arrangements; strategic planning of alternative programs; preparation of program
     specifications and criteria; the analysis and evaluation of proposal responses; and, preparation of final
     reports and recommendations for award(s).

     The County of Franklin has provided health insurance coverage on a fully insured basis through Anthem
     for five years. Prior to providing Anthem health insurance, The County of Franklin provided coverage
     through Coventry. The current contract has a pooling point of $125,000 and renews July 1, 2020.
     Currently, there are 382 eligible employees with 314 of those enrolled in one of two plans. They offer
     two PPO plans. More detailed information about the current plans can be found in the Exhibits
     document (Plan Designs tab).

     Franklin County implemented a spousal exclusion effective July 1, 2014. Only spouses that do not have
     access to healthcare through their own employer are eligible for coverage under Franklin County’s plan.

     PERIOD OF CONTRACT: The period of performance for this contract shall be one year, subject to
     appropriation of funds, from the effective date of July 1, 2020. The contract may be renewed for four
     additional one (1) year terms if both parties agree, contingent upon rate adjustments and the
     availability of funds.

     COMPETITION/COMPANY LIMITATION: It is the intent of this RFP to permit competition. It shall be
     the Offeror’s responsibility to advise the Employer in writing if any language, requirements,
     specifications, etc. or any combinations thereof, inadvertently restricts or limits to a single source the
     requirements stated in this RFP.

     Such notification must be received by the Contract Administrator no later than ten (10) days prior to the
     date set for acceptance of proposals. Comments as to how bid or proposal documents, specifications or
     diagrams can be improved are welcome at any time, including prior to the deadline for the receipt of
     bids or proposals or award of contract.

     WITHDRAWAL OF BIDS DUE TO ERROR: Section 11-54 of The Code of Virginia shall govern
     withdrawal of bids due to error.

     All price quotations should be net of agent or broker commissions/fees. If commissions cannot
     be removed, these amounts must be separately identified and explained in the financial exhibit.
                                                         2                             USI Insurance Services
Franklin County
Request for Proposal for Medical Coverage


SCOPE OF WORK: The scope of work shall include but may not be limited to the criteria set forth below.
Outline in writing how these minimum services will be met.

Minimum Services to Be Performed

1.    Provide networks of providers which are broad enough to ensure that all members (active and
      retired) have “reasonable access” to an adequate number of highly qualified primary care and
      specialist providers. Offerors should understand that the use of the phrase “reasonable access”
      when used in this RFP with respect to the medical and prescription drug networks means that
      members should be able to locate several qualified providers within the network who:

       a. Have offices convenient to members’ homes or job sites;
       b. Are accepting new patients; and
       c. Can schedule appointments for routine services within a few weeks and emergency
          appointments immediately.

2.    Provide and/or make available necessary, appropriate, and high quality medical and prescription
      benefits.

3.    Assist with the development of a comprehensive wellness program by supplying appropriate
      County utilization data, clinical personnel and any other pertinent tools.

4.    Provide high quality, efficient program administration and services including but not limited to:

       a. Maintaining central claims and membership files for each covered member (including the
          identification number or other identifying number, dates of coverage, type of coverage, etc.) for
          each covered member.
       b. Maintaining payment records.
       c. Provide state-of-the-art data tracking and claims payment services.
       d. Provide ID cards directly to members throughout the contract period.
       e. Provide identification cards directly to all covered members prior to the effective date of the
          program (July 1, 2020). During the contract year, provide identification cards within ten (10)
          business days of receipt of request.
       f. Meet with the appropriate Employers’ management staff(s) within fifteen (15) days after the
          contract award date to present the proposed communication material, and to jointly establish a
          preliminary implementation plan and open enrollment program and schedule.
       g. Provide finalized contract to the County for review in a timely manner (15 days).

4.    Offeror shall provide responsive and effective customer service for members related to billing,
      eligibility and claims issues. The County requests that the Offeror’s customer service
      representatives respond to questions and resolve issues/problems directly with members rather
      than referring the members back to the County.

5.    Furnish and deliver to each enrolled employee a benefit booklet (evidence of coverage) outlining
      and defining all covered services, limitations and exclusions, schedule of benefits, and other plan
      information requirements. Address your ability to provide one (1) copy to the County on a timely
      basis, but not later than June 1, 2020. The County will review and approve booklets prior to
      distribution.


                                                        3                            USI Insurance Services
Franklin County
Request for Proposal for Medical Coverage


6.    Furnish sufficient copies of a Summary of Benefits and Coverage (SBC) and the Uniform Glossary
      for each eligible employee and retiree during open enrollment periods. Identify any costs to the
      County.

7.    Provide open enrollment materials in hard and electronic copies.

8.    Commit to providing staff to participate in annual open enrollment meetings if needed.

9.    Maintain complete and total compliance with the HIPAA legislation as it pertains to Private Health
      Information.

10.   Agree to release all pertinent data related to the administration and management of the medical
      and pharmacy program under the Business Associate Agreement to the County of Franklin and
      USI Insurance.

11.   Each February 1st prior to the annual contract effective date; provide the County of Franklin and
      their consultant, a complete underwriting analysis.

12.   Provide the County of Franklin and their Consultant with a detailed annual accounting showing
      the expenditure of all funds. Enrollment, premium, claims and expenses must be tracked.

13.   Provide a single point of contact responsible for quality control, resolving problems and
      expediting services related to the overall performance of the contract.

14.   Offeror shall provide administrative procedures manual to the County of Franklin to be used to
      administer the program, including necessary forms and instructions. This should be delivered no
      later than 15 days after the award of the contract.

15.   Provide a systematic procedure for appeal of claims.

16.   Provide a contract for the one-year term, with the option to renew annually, which can only be
      canceled by the insurer or administrator for non-payment of premium or if sufficient funds are
      not appropriated by the governing bodies.

17.   Offeror shall provide proactive disease management programs that address the chronic health
      condition of the County’s population.

18.   Offeror will provide meaningful reports to the County to identify utilization patterns, trends, etc.
      Please include sample reports with your proposal.




                                                         4                             USI Insurance Services
Franklin County
Request for Proposal for Medical Coverage


General Information

CONTRACT ADMINISTRATOR/TECHNICAL POINT OF CONTACT: The following employees are
identified to use all powers under the contract to enforce its faithful performance:

Contract Administrator: All orders from County of Franklin shall be transmitted and
communicated through the Contract Administrator. As the Contract Administrator, the following
individual, or designee, shall serve as the interpreter of the conditions of the contract and shall use
all powers under the contract to enforce its faithful performance:
                                             Christopher L. Whitlow
                                          Interim County Administrator
                                         County of Franklin, Virginia
                                         1255 Franklin Street, Suite 112
                                             Rocky Mount, VA 24151

County Technical Point of Contact: The County Technical Point of Contact for this contract is
responsible for the day-to-day administration of the contract. This officer or their designee will be
the recipient of management reports, bills for service, and all other routine correspondence related
to the contract:
                                            Brian Carter
                                         Director of Finance
                                       County of Franklin, Virginia
                                       1255 Franklin Street, Suite 111
                                          Rocky Mount, VA 24151

Technical Point of Contact: Questions from potential offerors of a technical nature should be
submitted in writing at least 10 business days prior to the due date to the County of Franklin and
the consultants at USI Insurance. Any questions not submitted 10 days prior to the due date may
not be answered. Any questions answered will be in the form of an RFP addendum.
                                                Celeste Kane
                                             Account Executive
                                               USI Insurance
                                          4840 Cox Road, Suite 150
                                            Glen Allen, VA 23060
                                           Celeste.kane@usi.com

                ALL QUESTIONS MUST BE SUBMITTED IN WRITING AND E-MAILED TO:
                                   CELESTE.KANE@USI.COM
                        AND CC: PAT.BARNES@FRANKLINCOUNTYVA.GOV .



CONFIDENTIALITY: Your response to this RFP shall not be discussed with anyone outside of the
Offeror’s organization. Any issues regarding confidentiality should be directed to the Contract
Administrator. Any breach of this confidentiality requirement may result in immediate




                                                           5                        USI Insurance Services
Franklin County
Request for Proposal for Medical Coverage


disqualification of your organization from further consideration pursuant to the award of any
resulting contract.

RFP Response: In order to be considered for selection, Offerors must submit a complete response
to the RFP on or before 4:00 p.m., November 19, 2019.

An electronic version (email preferred) must be submitted by the RFP deadline to each of the
following:
                                           USI Insurance
                                      Attention: Celeste Kane
                                       Celeste.kane@usi.com

                                     Franklin County Virginia
                                      Attention Brian Carter
                                Brian.Carter@franklincountyva.gov

No other distribution of the proposal shall be made by the Offeror.

Proposal Preparation: Proposals shall be signed by an authorized representative of the Offeror.
All information requested must be submitted. Proposals received after the date and time
prescribed shall not be considered for contract award and shall be returned to the offeror.
Mandatory requirements are those required by law or regulation or are such that they cannot be
waived and are not subject to negotiation.

Proposals should be prepared simply and economically, providing a straightforward, concise
description of capabilities to satisfy the requirements of this RFP. Emphasis should be placed on
completeness and clarity of content.

Ownership of all data, materials and documentation originated and prepared for the County pursuant
to the RFP shall belong exclusively to the County of Franklin and be subject to inspection in accordance
with the Virginia Freedom of Information Act. Trade secrets and proprietary information submitted by
an Offeror shall not be subject to public disclosure under the Virginia Freedom of Information Act;
however, the Offeror must invoke the protection of Title 2-2, Chapter 43, 2.2-4342 of the Virginia Public
Procurement Act prior to or upon submission of the data or other materials to be protected and state
the reasons why protection is necessary. Any offeror wishing to protect proprietary information must
attach a note to the proposal that specifies the content of the proprietary information contained in the
proposal.

Specific Requirements: Proposals should be as thorough and detailed as possible so that the
County of Franklin may properly evaluate the Offeror’s capabilities to provide the required services.
Offerors are required to submit the following items in the sequence outlined below as a complete
proposal:
      • Complete response to RFP, signed, filled out, and submitted as required.

      •   A detailed outline and description of proposed plan designs, including a list of standard
          limitations and exclusions.

      •   A detailed outline and description of proposed program administration and services.


                                                         6                       USI Insurance Services
Franklin County
Request for Proposal for Medical Coverage



       •   A narrative summary of all the deviations from the specifications. The detailed
           explanation and description of price quotation deviations should be submitted as
           required in this RFP.

       •   The completed Questionnaire.

       •   The completed and signed Signature Sheet.

       •   Copies of all documents requested in this RFP as well as samples of any documents that may
           assist in the evaluation of this RFP.

       •   The submission of the Price Quotations.

Schedule of Project

                                 Activity                                           Due Date
  Procurement office approval of RFP and release RFP                            October 30,2019
  RFP responses due                                                           November 19, 2019
  RFP evaluation and management report to County                            Week of December 9, 2019
  Interview top finalists                                                    Week of January 6, 2020
  Negotiations with best ranked offerors, in rank order                     Week of January 13, 2020
  Select finalist and post Notice of Intent to Award                        Week of February 17, 2020
  Finalize contribution rates and prepare communications                          March 2020
  Conduct employee education meetings                                               May 2020
  Send applications to vendor                                                       June 2020
  ID cards to employees                                                      Week of June 15, 2020

       Note: This timeline is tentative and may be revised during the procurement process at the sole
       discretion of the County.

INSTRUCTIONS: Identify the data or other materials to be protected and state the reasons by using
the codes listed below. The classification of an entire bid or proposal document, line item prices,
and/or total bid or proposal prices as proprietary or trade secret is not acceptable and will result in
rejection of the bid or proposal.

A – This page contains information relating to "trade secrets", and "proprietary information"
   including processes. Operations, style of work, or apparatus. Identify confidential statistical data.
   Amount or source of any income of any person (or) partnership. "See Virginia Public
   Procurement Act. Section 2.2-4342. Unauthorized disclosure of such information would violate
   theTradeSecretsAct18U.S.C.1905.

B – This page contains proprietary information including confidential, commercial or financial
   information which was provided to the Government on a voluntary basis and is of the type that
   would not customarily release to the public. See Virginia Public Procurement Act, Section 2.2-
   4342;5U.S.C.552(b)(4);12C.F.R.309.5(c)(4).




                                                           7                       USI Insurance Services
Franklin County
Request for Proposal for Medical Coverage


C – This page contains proprietary information including confidential, commercial or financial
   information. The disclosure of such information would cause substantial harm to competitive
   position and impair the Government's ability to obtain necessary information from contractors
   in the future. 5 U.S.C. See Virginia Public Procurement Act. Section 2.2-4342; 552 (b) (4); 12 C. F.
   R 309.5(c) (4).

County Evaluation of Proposals: The County may cancel this RFP, reject proposals or any portion
thereof at any time prior to an award, and are not required to furnish a statement of the reason why
a particular proposal was not deemed to be the most advantageous (Section 2.2-4359, Code of
Virginia). Should the Contract administrator and the Evaluation Committee determine in writing
and in its sole discretion that only one Offeror is fully qualified, or that one Offeror is clearly more
highly qualified than the others under consideration, a contract may be negotiated and awarded to
that Offeror.

Clarification of Terms: If a prospective Offeror has questions about the Request for Proposal or
other solicitation documents, the prospective Offeror should contact the USI Insurance contact
(page 6). Any revisions to the solicitation will be made only by addendum.

Protest of Award or Decision to Award: Any Offeror may protest in writing to the Contract
Administrator, no later than ten (10) days after the Notice of Award or the Notice of Intent to
Award, whichever occurs first. The written protest shall include the basis for the protest and the
relief sought. The Contract Administrator shall issue a decision in writing within ten (10) days of
the receipt of the protest stating the reasons for the action taken.
If prior to award it is determined that the decision to award is arbitrary or capricious then the sole
relief shall be a finding to that effect. The Contract Administrator shall cancel the proposed award
or revise it to comply with the law. If, after an award, it is determined that an award of a contract
was arbitrary or capricious, then the sole relief shall be as hereinafter provided. If the award has
been made but performance has not begun, the performance of the contract may be declared void
by the County of Franklin.

Where the award has been made and performance has begun, the Contract Administrator may
declare the contract void upon a finding that this action is in the best interest of the County of
Franklin. Where a contract is declared void, the performing Contractor shall be compensated for
the cost of performance at the rate specified in the contract up to the time of such declaration. In no
event shall the performing Contractor be entitled to lost profits.
Pending final determination of a protest or appeal, the validity of a contract awarded and accepted
in good faith in accordance with this paragraph shall be affected by the fact that a protest or appeal
has been filed.

An award need not be delayed for the period allowed an Offeror to protest, but in the event of a
timely protest, no further action to award the contract will be taken unless there is a written
determination that proceeding without delay is necessary to protect the public interest or unless
the offer would expire.

Termination For Cause/Default: In case of failure to deliver goods or provide services in
accordance with the contract terms and conditions, the Contract Administrator or each employer,
after due oral or written notice, may procure them from other sources and hold the Contractor
responsible for any resulting additional purchase and administrative costs. This remedy shall be in


                                                           8                       USI Insurance Services
Franklin County
Request for Proposal for Medical Coverage


addition to any other remedies, which the County of Franklin may have. Specifically, if, through
any cause, the Contractor shall fail to fulfill in a timely and proper manner their obligations under
this contract, or if the Contractor shall violate any of the covenants, agreements, or stipulations of
this contract, the Contract Administrator shall thereupon have the right to terminate, specifying the
effective date thereof, at least sixty (60) days before the effective date of such termination. In such
event, all finished or unfinished documents, data, studies, surveys, drawings, maps, models, and
reports prepared by the Contractor under the contract shall at its option become its property and
the Contractor shall be entitled to receive just and equitable compensation for any satisfactory
work completed on such documents.

Audit: The Contractor hereby agrees to retain all books, records, and other documents relative to
this contract for five (5) years after final payment, or until audited by the Contract Administrator or
each employer, whichever is sooner. The Contract Administrator or each employer, its authorized
agents, and/or auditors reserves the right to perform or have performed an audit of the records of
the Contractor and therefore shall have full access to and the right to examine any of said materials
within a reasonable period of time during said period.

Receipt of Proposals: To be considered for selection, proposals must be received by the County of
Franklin by the designated date and hour. Proposals received after the date and hour designated
are automatically disqualified and will not be considered. The County of Franklin is not
responsible for delays in the delivery of mail by the U.S. Postal Service or private couriers. It is the
sole responsibility of the Offerors to ensure that its proposal reaches the County of Franklin and our
consultants, USI Insurance by the designated date and hour, - November 19, 2019, 4:00 p.m.
Eastern Standard Time.

Non-Discrimination Clause: During the performance of this contract, the insurer agrees as follows:
      1. The insurer will not discriminate against any employee or applicant for employment
          because of race, religion, color, sex, or national origin, except where religion, sex, or
          national origin is a bona fide occupational qualification reasonably necessary to the normal
          operation of the insure. The insurer agrees to post in a conspicuous place, available to
          employees and applicants for employment a notice setting forth the provisions of this non-
          discrimination clause.
      2. The insurer, in all solicitation or advertisements for employees placed by or on behalf of
          the insurer, will state that such insurer is an equal opportunity employer.
      3. Notices, advertisements and solicitations placed in accordance with federal law, rule or
          regulation shall be deemed sufficient for the purpose of meeting the requirements of this
          section.
      4. The insurer will include provisions of the foregoing paragraph A 1, 2 and 3 in every
          subcontract or purchase order over ten thousand dollars ($10,000) so that the provisions
          will be binding upon each subcontractor or vendor.

NO GAIN OR LOSS PROVISION: No participant currently covered shall suffer a loss of coverage as
a result of changing insurance carriers. All pre-existing conditions and waiting periods shall be
waived for those employees currently enrolled in the employer’s healthcare program, or currently
employed.


                                                           9                       USI Insurance Services
Franklin County
Request for Proposal for Medical Coverage


Obligation of Offeror: By submitting a proposal, the Offeror conveys and agrees that they are
satisfied, from their own investigation of the conditions to be met, that they fully understand their
obligation and that they will not make any claim for, or have right to cancellation or relief from the
contract because of any misunderstanding or lack of information.

Proposal Acceptance Period: The proposal shall be binding upon the Offeror for a minimum of 90
calendar days following the proposal receipt and opening date. Any proposal on which the Offeror
shortens the acceptance period may be rejected as determined by the County.
Public Access to Procurement Information: Unsuccessful bidders or offers, whichever may be
applicable, will not be notified of this award made regarding procurement; however, public access
to the information is available in the County of Franklin Procurement Office.

Transfer of Records at Future Cancellation: The successful Offeror awarded the contract to
provide a medical/prescription drug administration program must agree that at termination of the
contract all required data and records necessary to administer the program shall be transferred to
the new contractor within thirty (30) days’ notice of termination.




                                                          10                       USI Insurance Services
Franklin County
Request for Proposal for Medical Coverage


 Employer:                     County of Franklin

 Enrollment:                   Approximately 314 enrolled

 Coverages to be Bid:          Medical/Prescription Drug,

 Present Carriers:             Anthem

 Proposal Effective Date:      July 1, 2020

 Plan Year:                    12 months

 Proposal Due Date:            November 19, 2019

 Funding Arrangement:          Fully-Insured

 Claims Experience:            See Exhibits document, specifically the Claims & Enrollments and Large
                               Claims tabs.

 Plan Design:                  Please match the current double option plan design as closely as possible
                               in the Exhibits document, Plan Designs tab.

 Commissions:                  Your quote should be net of commissions.

 Inquiries/Replies to:         Celeste Kane
                               USI Insurance Services
                               Celeste.kane@usi.com




                                                    11                      USI Insurance Services
Franklin County
Request for Proposal for Medical Coverage


Current/Proposed Plan Design
The County of Franklin would like to receive competitive proposals for

   1) two different plan offerings:
      a. A dual choice option that closely mirrors the current funding and benefit design that is in
         place—Anthem KeyCare 25 and KeyCare 30.
      b. A dual choice with a plan similar to its current KeyCare 30 plan, along with an HSA-eligible
         High Deductible Health Plan

   2) under two different funding arrangements:
      a. fully-insurance (their current funding method), and
      b. self-funded with $125k specific stop loss, 120% aggregate stop loss on a 12/18 basis.

Benefit descriptions for the current and proposed plans are provided in the Exhibits document, Plan
Designs tab

Current Rates:

                                   KeyCare 25
                    EE Only          $514.16
                   EE + Child        $771.22
                 EE + Children      $1,079.76
                  EE + Spouse       $1,105.47
                  EE + Family       $1,645.36
                                     $20,515
                                   KeyCare 30
                    EE Only          $495.14
                   EE + Child        $742.69
                 EE + Children      $1,039.79
                  EE + Spouse       $1,064.57
                  EE + Family       $1,584.46




                                                        12                          USI Insurance Services
Franklin County
Request for Proposal for Medical Coverage


The following questionnaire will assist the County of Franklin in evaluating the quality of care and
benefits being offered to employees and dependents as well as assist in the evaluation of the financial
and contractual information requested of the offeror. An offeror’s evaluation score will not be
adversely impacted if a specific question does not apply.

INSTRUCTIONS
      1. Any question having a response that would be deemed as “Trade Secrets” will need to be
         identified.

       2. Answer all questions fully, clearly and concisely unless a specific question is not applicable
          to the service you are proposing to provide.

       3. Each response must immediately follow the respective question. The question as well as
          the answer shall be typed. All questions and responses shall be numbered/labeled exactly
          as in this Questionnaire.

       4. If the offeror is unable to answer a question or the question does not apply, the offeror
          shall indicate why.

       5. If the offeror is unwilling to disclose particular information asked in a question, the offeror
          shall indicate why.

       6. Samples of documents requested in the Questionnaire should be labeled with the
          corresponding question number.

GENERAL INFORMATION

       1.   Fill in the following information:

                     Point of Contact:
                     Title:
                     Company:
                     Address:
                     Telephone:
                     E-Mail:

       2.   Have the proposal requirements been fully met as requested in this RFP?

               Yes      No

            If not, please summarize all deviations and include the summary of assumptions and
            deviations in the Attachments document, E4 UW Assumptions worksheet.




                                                         13                            USI Insurance Services
Franklin County
Request for Proposal for Medical Coverage


      3.   Please provide your most recent ratings (include the date of the rating) by each of the
           following (Note: If the offeror receives multiple ratings, the rating should be for the actual
           company assuming the insurance and/or reinsurance risk):

              a.   Fitch:
              b.   Standard & Poors:
              c.   Moody’s:
              d.   A.M. Best:

ENROLLMENT/ELIGIBILITY and ADMINISTRATION

      4.   What is the location of the local service team that would work with the County?

      5.   Describe your ongoing enrollment procedures, including any electronic or online
           capabilities you may have. Indicate the services you would be willing to provide, such as
           on-site assistance with employees, etc. if your company is selected. Will you accept
           eligibility transfer from the incumbent carrier? Identify any services, which would require
           a separate fee to be paid outside the administrative fees included in the Price Quotations.

      6.   Describe the transition process you propose to ensure a seamless transition. Detail any
           transition expenses involved and whether these expenses are included in your pricing.

      7.   What is the average turnaround time, from date of receipt for the following:

                   Clean Claims
                   COB Claims
                   Medical Review Claims
                   Investigated Claims
                   Other (Explain)

      8.   Describe how your proposed account team will interface on an ongoing basis with the
           County and benefits staff on administrative issues (including billing, claims issues, etc.)
           and describe your process for resolving administrative problems. Please submit
           biographies for all account team. Please note that if a member of the account team is
           removed, it is a requirement of the contract that another account member with the same
           level of experience/job functions take over the position.

PROVIDER SELECTION/CRITERIA EVALUATION

      9.   Please provide a GeoAccess report based on your PPO networks using each employee’s zip
           code data provided in the census. Definition: 2 PCPs within 20 miles, 2 specialists within
           20 miles and 1 hospital within 30 miles.

      10. Are there any specific professional provider areas of specialty in which you have network
           participation issues? Please address for any specialty groups in which network
           participation is below 70%.

      11. Do you anticipate any imminent significant changes to your network?
                                                         14                           USI Insurance Services
Franklin County
Request for Proposal for Medical Coverage



      12. How are employees or dependents (i.e., child attending school, COBRA enrollees) who
           reside outside the network service area covered? How do you define “within service
           area”?

      13. Please complete the Provider Checklist tab in the Attachments document as instructed.

      14. Do you have Centers of Excellence for specific specialty care, surgery, etc.? If yes, list the
           facilities by specialty. Please describe your program, including how centers are selected
           and details on services offered to family members when travel and overnight stays are
           involved. Is your Centers of Excellence program voluntary?

    PRESCRIPTION DRUG PROGRAM

      15. Please complete the Rx Checklist tab in the Attachments document as instructed.

      16. Do you administer the prescription drug program included in your quote or do you
           subcontract the services? If services are subcontracted, specify vendor. When does the
           contract expire?

      17. Please explain your mail-order drug program. Identify where the mail order prescriptions
           are filled, the state the mail order program is licensed in, the average turnaround time
           from when a member mails the request to receiving the prescription, and the procedure
           the member follows to submit the initial and subsequent prescription order. Are any
           services provided via the Internet? If so, please explain. Explain online or IVR capabilities.

      18. Please explain your drug formulary or preferred drug program. How often is the
           formulary/preferred list changed and how are providers and members notified? Address
           the appeals and/or pre-approval processes. How does your program influence drug
           selection, and maximize the value of your formulary/preferred drug program?

      19. When new drugs come onto the market, how and when are they evaluated for inclusion in
           your formulary?

      20. Describe your drug utilization review programs. What flags do you have built-in to your
           system, i.e. to identify drug-to-drug interactions etc.? Are high-cost claimants monitored,
           and if so, what criteria are used to identify and manage these cases?

      21. List all drugs that require prior authorization. What is your average turnaround time for
           approval?

      22. Please describe your process if a member has a prescription denied? How is the member
           notified of the denial? What is the process if the member wants to appeal and request
           approval for the prescription?

      23. Describe the process your company has in place to ensure that all new members currently
           taking prescription medications (all tiers) will be able to access and receive the same
           quality of care they are currently receiving. How much disruption will the member notice,
           if any?
                                                         15                            USI Insurance Services
Franklin County
Request for Proposal for Medical Coverage




HEALTH MANAGEMENT SERVICES

      24. Indicate what disease management services you provide as part of your coverage and
            specify A for adult and P for pediatric services for each service provided. (Place a “✓” in
            the appropriate box if provide service.)

                                                                        Services included in
                   A        P                                           rate (Y/N)
                                      Asthma
                                      High Cholesterol
                                      Diabetes
                                      Hypertension
                                      Coronary Artery Disease
                                      Congestive Heart Failure
                                      HIV/AIDS
                                      Low Back/Musculoskeletal
                                      Other (Specify)

      25. Please describe health promotion or wellness programs that you can offer the County at
            no cost (attach program descriptions or other literature to illustrate your program
            offerings). Do you have the ability to conduct on site wellness seminars, clinical
            screenings or health risk assessments? Are there additional programs that could be
            purchased by the County?


DATA MANAGEMENT

      26. Confirm that you will provide monthly enrollment, revenues received, claims paid by place
            of service, capitation expenses charged, network discounts earned, and claims exceeding
            the pooling limit. Confirm that on a quarterly basis you will also provide utilization and
            normative data in a sufficient level of detail that will allow the County of Franklin to
            identify the true cost drivers of their plan.

      27. Do you offer online access to your database, which would allow the County of Franklin and
            their consultant to access certain management reports? If so, please explain your system,
            the cost to access and run reports, and an outline of what kinds of reports are available.
            Indicate how frequently the database is updated with real time information. Please
            provide sample reports if possible.

FINANCIAL

      28. Outline your renewal methodology that will be used for the County of Franklin’s fully
            insured funding arrangement.



      29. Outline any financial guarantees offered to the County of Franklin.
                                                          16                           USI Insurance Services
Franklin County
Request for Proposal for Medical Coverage


Pricing Quotation
The Price Quotations for medical and prescription drug should be based upon the employee census,
stated enrollment assumptions and experience data provided with the RFP. Further information will
be provided only after receipt of written request. Each request will be considered, and if deemed
appropriate will be released to all prospective bidders.




                                                      17                         USI Insurance Services
