      Request for Proposal


         2020 Solicitation for
New Photovoltaic Solar, Onshore Wind
 Power Supply Generation and Energy
              Storage

             May 1, 2020




    Dominion Energy Virginia
                                          TABLE OF CONTENTS

Table of Contents
PART I – RFP Overview ........................................................................................................ 2
 A. Introduction .......................................................................................................................... 2
 B. Purpose ................................................................................................................................. 3
 C. Scope ..................................................................................................................................... 4
 D. Schedule & Process ............................................................................................................. 9
 E. Communications ................................................................................................................ 11
 F. Modifications to RFP .......................................................................................................... 11
 G. Confidentiality..................................................................................................................... 12
 H. Miscellaneous ..................................................................................................................... 12

PART II – Proposal Evaluation .......................................................................................... 14
 A. Evaluation Methodology Overview................................................................................... 14
 B. Evaluation Process .............................................................................................................. 14
 C. Price Evaluation .................................................................................................................. 15
 D. Non-Price Evaluation Criteria ............................................................................................ 16

PART III – Proposal Submittals ........................................................................................ 19
 A. Proposal Requirements & General Instructions .............................................................. 19
 B. Proposal Summary Submittal ............................................................................................ 19
 C. Information Form Addendum ........................................................................................... 25
 D. Form Agreements............................................................................................................... 25
 E. Planned Development and Construction Schedule ........................................................ 26




PART I – RFP Overview
A.         Introduction


           More than 7 million customers in 20 states energize their homes and businesses with

           electricity or natural gas from Dominion Energy, headquartered in Richmond, Va. The
           company is committed to sustainable, reliable, affordable and safe energy and is one of the
           nation's largest producers and transporters of energy with more than $100 billion of assets

                                                                                                                                           2
     providing electric generation, transmission and distribution, as well as natural gas storage,
     transmission, distribution and import/export services. The company is committed to
     achieving net zero carbon dioxide and methane emissions from its power generation and
     gas infrastructure operations by 2050. Please visit DominionEnergy.com to learn more.


     Virginia Electric and Power Company (the “Company” or “Dominion Energy Virginia”), a
     wholly owned subsidiary of Dominion, is a regulated public utility that generates,
     transmits and distributes electricity for sale in Virginia. In May 2005, the Company
     became a member of the PJM Interconnection L.L.C. (“PJM”) Regional Transmission
     Organization, which operates the wholesale electric grid in the Mid-Atlantic region of
     the United States. As a result, the Company transferred operational control of its
     transmission assets to PJM.

     The Company has a diverse mix of generating resources consisting of Company-owned
     nuclear, fossil, hydro, pumped storage, biomass and solar facilities. Additionally, the
     Company purchases capacity and energy from non-utility generators and the PJM
     market.


B.   Purpose
     With this Request for Proposals (“RFP”) dated May 1, 2020, Dominion Energy Virginia is
     soliciting proposal(s) (the “Proposal(s)”) from bidders (“Bidders”) for new photovoltaic
     (“PV”) solar generation Unit Capacity, new PV solar generation paired with energy
     storage Unit Capacity, new onshore wind Unit Capacity (as defined in Section I.C.1,
     below), new onshore wind paired with energy storage Unit Capacity, or stand-alone
     energy storage Unit Capacity.

     The need for additional generation resources to serve the Company’s projected
     customer load was identified in the Company’s 2011-2020 Integrated Resource Plans
     (“IRPs”). The IRP is the Company’s long-term planning document for meeting future
     customer needs at the lowest reasonable cost while maintaining reliability and flexibility.
     The Company’s 2020 IRP is available at:
     https://www.dominionenergy.com/company/making-energy by using the ‘Download’

                                                                                                     3
     button under Long-Term Dominion Energy Forecast.


     New renewable generation resources and energy storage are also needed to achieve the
     Company’s commitment of net zero carbon emissions from its power generation fleet by
     2050 and to meet targets as set forth in the Virginia Clean Economy Act signed by
     Governor Northam on April 11, 2020. Renewable Energy Credits from these new
     resources are intended to be used for purposes of compliance with the Renewable
     Portfolio Standard as defined in the Virginia Clean Economy Act.


     The Company is conducting this RFP to seek third-party proposals in order to fully
     evaluate and determine the most favorable new solar generation, onshore wind
     generation and energy storage option(s) for its customers.

C.   Scope
     All Proposals must conform to the RFP requirements detailed below. Any Proposal that
     does not conform to one or more of the RFP requirements may be eliminated from
     further consideration.

     1. Product

        For the purposes of this RFP, “Unit Capacity” is defined as maximum net MW (ac)
        output, and includes capacity, energy, ancillary services and environmental attributes
        (including but not limited to renewable energy certificates) delivered from a specific
        new PV solar facility, PV + energy storage facility, new onshore wind facility, new
        onshore wind + energy storage facility, or a stand-alone energy storage facility.

     2. Structures

        The Company is seeking proposals based on any of the following structures. Bidders
        have the option of submitting more than one proposal for a single facility, each
        based on a different structure.

        a. Power Purchase Agreement (“PPA”): Agreement that provides Company the
             exclusive right to 100% of the Unit Capacity of the facility from which such output
                                                                                              4
      will be delivered. The contract delivery term shall be twenty years. Such PPA shall
      also provide Company an option to acquire the facility’s assets on or after the
      tenth full year of operation.

   b. Asset Acquisition of Development Project at Notice to Proceed (“Development
      Proposal”): Proposal that provides a price for the sale of a development project,
      including property rights, permits, interconnection queue position, reports and
      preliminary design documents and agreements that would allow the Company to
      complete development and construction of the facility by the expected in-service
      date. The Company will consider all Development Proposals under this structure.

   c. Asset Acquisition of Project at Mechanical Completion (“MC Proposal”): Proposal
      that provides a price for the sale of a project that is to be developed, constructed
      and turned over to the Company at Mechanical Completion. The Company will
      not consider PV + energy storage, onshore wind + energy storage and
      standalone energy storage Development Proposals under the Asset Acquisition
      of Project at Mechanical Completion structure.

3. Commercial Operations Date

   For PPA Proposals, Development Proposals and MC Proposals, the Bidder must
   propose a delivery of Unit Capacity commencing no later than 2023. While not a
   requirement, Proposals that include actions that have been taken, or a plan to secure
   as high a percentage of the Federal Solar ITC as possible may be evaluated more
   favorably. All proposed facilities shall be in-service and capable of delivering their
   full rated output by December 31, 2023. The delivery year shall be clearly
   designated as part of all Proposals and should be supported by a firm contractual
   commitment.

4. Quantity

  The Company is seeking PPA Proposals, Development Proposals and MC Proposals for
  up to 1,000 MW (ac) total capacity at the point of interconnection with a COD no later
  than 2023 from new solar PV and onshore wind facilities with Unit Capacity of at least 5
                                                                                       5
MW. Each Proposal must represent generation at a single site and shall not reflect an
aggregate of multiple facilities at separate sites to meet the minimum size threshold.


The Company is also seeking PV + energy storage, stand-alone energy storage, and
onshore wind + energy storage PPA Proposals and Development Proposals for up to
250 MW (ac or dc) total capacity (as capable of being delivered to the interconnection
point) by 2023, from facilities with Unit Capacity of at least 5 MW as referenced in
Section I.C.2 above. The 250 MW (ac or dc) total capacity request will only be
attributed to the storage portion of the bid submittals.


For all PV + energy storage, stand-alone energy storage, and onshore wind + energy
storage PPA and Development Proposals, the Company is requiring a four-hour
duration Lithium-ion battery energy storage system to be included as a component of
all Development Proposals. The Company will also consider Additional Alternative
Storage Bids as part of the submittal of a four-hour duration Lithium-ion battery energy
storage system. These Additional Alternative Storage Bids can include, but are not
limited to, flow batteries, hydro energy storage, mechanical energy storage, cryogenic
energy storage, compressed air energy storage or other commercially viable energy
storage systems. The Company is only seeking storage bids to be submitted that have
four-hour and ten-hour durations. Each Proposal must represent generation at a single
site and shall not reflect an aggregate of multiple facilities at separate sites to meet the
minimum size threshold.


All required four-hour Lithium-ion Development Proposals and PPA Proposals are to
include the following inputs/assumptions:
   •   One full charge / discharge cycle in a twenty-four-hour period at submitted
       Minimum and Maximum States of Charge
   •   Battery augmentation cycle that maintains facility output (Nameplate Capacity
       MWac multiplied by four-hour duration) over a ten-year period
   •   Annual degradation rate to be applied to initial facility output (Nameplate
                                                                                         6
          Capacity MWac multiplied by four-hour duration) assuming no battery
          augmentation is performed
      •   Submission of anticipated facility useful life, given the charge / discharge cycle
          use case requirements noted above
  Bidders must submit required Storage System Technical Aspects (as found on the 2020
  RFP Checklists) that align with the use cases and duration / cycling / augmentation
  requirements as noted above. All Additional Alternative Storage Bid non-conforming
  four-hour and ten-hour energy storage Development Proposals may submit multiple
  charge / discharge cycles in a twenty four hour period. It is encouraged that
  augmentation cycles and annual degradation rates be supplied with these Additional
  Alternative Storage Bids Proposals, as applicable.


5. Delivery Point & Interconnection Status

   The Company will only consider Proposals for facilities located in Virginia. In the
   event facilities are connected at the distribution level they must be directly
   interconnected to the Company’s distribution system or have a Wholesale Market
   Participation Agreement (WMPA) with PJM. The Company prefers facilities that are
   physically located in its service area whether they are distribution or transmission
   connected but will consider facilities in other service areas.


   Projects with delivery points that the Company deems are likely to provide locational
   grid benefits to Dominion Energy Virginia customers may be evaluated more
   favorably.

   For state jurisdictional distribution level interconnections, projects submitted must
   have an active interconnection request, or interconnection agreement. For
   transmission level interconnections requiring interconnection rights obtained
   through the PJM new generator interconnection queue, the project must have
   progressed at least to the point of having a fully executed System Impact Study
   Agreement.

                                                                                           7
6. Technology & Fuel Reliability

   All Proposals must utilize existing, proven technologies, with demonstrated reliable
   generation performance.

7. Checklists

   Eleven Checklists have been developed that outline “Required” and “Requested”

   information for each bid submittal. The checklists include, (i) Acquisition - Solar, (ii)
   Acquisition – Wind, (iii) Acquisition – Solar Mechanical Completion, (iv) Acquisition –
   Solar Plus Energy Storage, (v) Acquisition – Wind Plus Energy Storage, (vi) Acquisition
   – Stand-alone Energy Storage, (vii) PPA – Solar, (viii) PPA – Solar Plus Energy Storage,
   (ix) PPA – Stand-alone Energy Storage, (x) PPA – Wind and (xi) PPA – Wind Plus
   Storage. These checklists are available on the RFP website and should be used as a
   guide for all bid submittals. If all Required items are not delivered by the Proposal
   Submittal Date, bids may be disqualified from the evaluation process. All Proposals
   must have a well-defined and credible development plan for either Bidder or
   Company to complete the development, construction and commissioning of the
   facility within the proposed timeline.

8. Agreements

   The Proposal must be accompanied by either (i) an affirmative statement that Bidder
   is taking no exception to the form of power purchase agreement and/or form of
   asset purchase agreement (the “Form Agreements”) provided pursuant to this RFP; or
   (ii) a fully marked-up Form Agreement that is reflective of its bid, and that Bidder
   deems execution-ready. This is critical for the Company to properly evaluate a
   Proposal, and to ensure the Company can conclude the RFP process in a timely
   manner. Any proposed revisions to the Form Agreements must be clearly marked
   with specific language detailing the revisions and the accompanying rationale
   therefor. Proposals with incomplete Form Agreement revisions, edits and/or
   accompanying rationale, or that rely on future negotiations to finalize may be
   deemed non-responsive and subject to rejection by Dominion Energy Virginia.
                                                                                               8
     9. Exclusions

        The Company is not seeking or accepting demand side management resources, fossil
        fueled generation, or renewable generation other than PV solar and onshore wind or
        PV solar and onshore wind plus energy storage or stand-alone energy storage. While
        these excluded resources are outside the scope of this RFP, the Company may
        consider these resources in other existing and future Company-sponsored
        procurement programs.

        The Company will not consider Proposals that have material contingencies,
        such as for financing, environmental, etc.


D.   Schedule & Process
     1. Key Dates

            RFP Announcement & Issuance               May 1, 2020

            Intent to Bid Form & Confidentiality      May 18, 2020
            Agreement Deadline

            Form APAs and Form PPAs Posted to         August 1, 2020
            Bidder eRooms

            Acquisition Proposal Submittal Date       September 1, 2020

            PPA Proposal Submittal Date               March 1, 2021

            RFP Concluded                             Q2, 2021




     2. Intent to Bid Form and Confidentiality Agreement

        All participating Bidders must complete an Intent to Bid Form and execute a
        Confidentiality Agreement (“CA”). The completed form and signed CA must be
        emailed to 2020SolarWindRFP@dominionenergy.com no later than 12:00 PM EDT
        (noon) on May 18, 2020. The Intent to Bid Form and CA can be found on the RFP
        website at www.dominionenergy.com/2020SolarWindRFP. The Company will provide

                                                                                        9
   Bidders a confirmation upon receipt of the Intent to Bid Form and CA.

   After a Bidder has successfully completed and submitted the Intent to Bid Form and
   CA, the Company will provide access to an electronic data room (“eRoom”), which will
   contain the fully-executed CA, Form Agreements and ancillary documents referenced
   in the Checklists and will serve as the location for bidders to upload all Proposal
   documents.

3. Bidder Financial Information

   At the Company’s request, Bidders will be required to provide 2018 (audited), 2019
   (audited) and 2020 year-to-date financial information for the Bidder, and, if
   applicable, for the guarantors and sources of equity funding. Financial Information
   should include, at a minimum, a Balance Sheet, Statements of Income, and
   Statements of Cash Flows, with accompanying footnotes.

4. Proposal Submittal

   Bidders must submit Acquisition Proposal(s) on September 1, 2020, no later than 3:00
   PM Eastern Time. PPA Proposals must be submitted on March 1, 2021, no later than
   3:00 PM Eastern Time. Proposals must be submitted electronically via the eRoom.
   The Company will not accept Proposals that are mailed, emailed, or hand delivered.
   More complete instructions for submitting Proposals will be made available to
   participants prior to the Proposal due date.

   In order to be accepted as complete, Proposals must contain all the documents and
   data requested in the form and format required, as described in Part III of this RFP
   document.

5. Expiration of Proposals

   Proposals shall expire on the earlier of the time the Company notifies Bidder that its
   Proposal has been rejected in full or in part, or at 11:59 PM EPT on June 30, 2021. All
   Proposals must remain binding until such time of expiration.

                                                                                          10
E.   Communications
     1. RFP Process Information

        In addition to the information and instructions provided in this RFP document, please
        refer periodically to the RFP website www.dominionenergy.com/2020SolarWindRFP
        for additional information, announcements and updates.

     2. Bidder Questions & Answers

        Bidders may submit questions to the Company concerning this RFP process via email
        to 2020SolarWindRFP@dominionenergy.com. Please note that such questions will
        not be treated as confidential, and the question and answer may be shared for the
        benefit of other interested parties via the RFP website.

        Please note that under no circumstances shall Bidders attempt to contact
        Company employees directly with any matters related to this RFP process.

     3. Company Questions & Answers

        Proposals with material omissions will be deemed non-responsive and may be
        eliminated from consideration by the Company. Note that the Company does not
        plan to contact Bidders in the event of such non-conforming Proposals prior to
        elimination.

        However, in addition to the information requested from Bidders in this RFP
        document, the Company may have the need for clarifications or additional
        information as part of its review of Proposals. In such case, the Company will call or
        email the designated Bidder contact. Prompt responses to these questions will be
        required in order to maintain a responsive Proposal.

F.   Modifications to RFP
     The Company reserves the right to modify this RFP for any reason and at any time. Such
     changes will be communicated via the RFP website and directly to Bidders who submit a


                                                                                                 11
     valid Intent to Bid Form.


G.   Confidentiality
     The Company will maintain the confidentiality of all Proposals submitted in accordance
     with the terms of the CA.


H.   Miscellaneous
     1. The Company does not intend to negotiate with regard to PPA pricing. Bidders are
        advised to submit their best and final price with their PPA Proposal(s).

     2. The Company may procure more or less than the aggregate amount of Unit Capacity
        solicited in this RFP from one or more Bidders, and Bidders may propose facilities
        offering all or a portion of the solicited Unit Capacity. However, proposed projects
        must be at least 5 MW ac. Bidders are advised that any contract executed by the
        Company and any selected Bidder may not be an exclusive contract for the provision
        of Unit Capacity. In submitting a Proposal(s), Bidder will be deemed to have
        acknowledged that the Company may contract with others for the same or similar
        deliverables or may otherwise obtain the same or similar deliverables by other means
        and on different terms.

     3. The Company reserves the right, without qualification and at its sole discretion, to
        select any Proposal(s) or reject any and all Proposal(s), and/or to waive any formality
        or technicality in any Proposal(s) received. Bidders who submit Proposal(s) do so
        without recourse against the Company for either rejection by the Company or failure
        to execute an agreement for the purchase of Unit Capacity or the facility for any
        reason.

     4. The Company shall not reimburse Bidder, and Bidder is responsible for any cost
        incurred in the preparation or submission of a Proposal(s), in negotiations for a
        power purchase agreement or asset purchase agreement, and/or any other activity
        contemplated by the Proposal(s) submitted in connection with this RFP.

     5. The information provided in the RFP, or on the Company’s RFP website, has been

                                                                                               12
   prepared to assist Bidders in evaluating the RFP. It does not purport to contain all the
   information that may be relevant to Bidder in satisfying its due diligence efforts. The
   Company makes no representation or warranty, expressed or implied, as to the
   accuracy, reliability or completeness of the information in the RFP or the RFP website,
   and shall not be liable for any representation expressed or implied in the RFP or the
   RFP website or any omissions from the RFP or the RFP website, or any information
   provided to a Bidder by any other source.


6. Bidders should check the Company’s RFP website frequently to ensure it has the
   latest documentation and information. Neither the Company nor its representatives
   shall be liable to any Bidder or any of its representatives for any consequences
   relating to or arising from the Bidder's use of outdated information.

7. Bidder shall indemnify and hold the Company harmless from all damages and costs,
   including but not limited to legal costs, in connection with all claims, expenses,
   losses, proceedings or investigations that arise as a result of the RFP, including the
   award or denial of a bid pursuant to the RFP.

8. The submission of a Proposal to the Company shall constitute Bidder’s
   acknowledgment and acceptance of all the terms, conditions and requirements of
   this RFP.

9. Bidder shall obtain all licenses and permits that may be required by any
   governmental body or agency necessary to conduct Bidder’s business or to perform
   hereunder. Bidder’s subcontractors, employees, agents and representatives of each in
   performance hereunder shall comply with all applicable governmental laws,
   ordinances, rules, regulations, orders and all other governmental requirements.




                                                                                            13
PART II – Proposal Evaluation
A.   Evaluation Methodology Overview
     1. Overview of Price & Non-Price Methodology

        The Company will review and evaluate Proposals to determine the outcome that
        provides the lowest reasonable cost, while complying with the Virginia Clean
        Economy Act and related rules and regulations, and maintaining reliability and
        flexibility for Dominion Energy Virginia customers. This evaluation will be conducted
        in consecutive steps, as outlined in Section II.B, in order to conduct a thorough and
        efficient review of Proposals. Proposals selected from the RFP process will be those
        that offer the most favorable combination of the Price Evaluation and Non-Price
        Evaluation, as described further below.

     2. Company Self-build Alternatives

        The Company may develop self-build options for PV solar, PV solar plus energy
        storage, stand-alone energy storage, and/or onshore wind generation in Virginia (the
        “Company Build Options”). The Company currently anticipates that it may complete
        one or more of the Company Build Options in addition to completing one or more
        transactions resulting from this RFP.


B.   Evaluation Process
     1. Review for Completeness

        For Proposals received by the submittal deadlines, the Company will open and review
        all responses for completeness and responsiveness. Failure to provide the requested
        information in accordance with the submittal requirements described in Part III may
        result in disqualification of the Proposal.

     2. Review for Scope Compliance

        The Company will then review Proposals for compliance with the RFP scope as
        described in Section I.C. Any Proposal not conforming to one or more of the RFP
                                                                                                14
        scoping factors may be eliminated from further consideration.

     3. Initial Economic Screening

        Depending upon the number of Proposals that are determined to be complete and
        that meet scope compliance requirements, the Company may perform an initial
        economic screening in order to eliminate uneconomic Proposals. This will allow the
        final evaluation process to focus on the most economic Proposals relative to other
        Proposals received.

     4. Detailed Proposal Evaluation

        Dominion Energy Virginia will conduct the final review and evaluation of remaining
        Proposals based on the Price Evaluation and Non-Price Evaluation as described
        below.


C.   Price Evaluation
     The price evaluation will analyze each Proposal’s value to Dominion Energy Virginia
     customers based on the Proposal’s pricing. The Company will use generation planning
     and production cost models to determine the economic value, with the objective of
     minimizing present value revenue requirements for customers while maintaining grid
     reliability and flexibility. Depending on the nature of the Proposals, the Company may
     examine combinations of Proposals, along with one or more of the Company’s Build
     Options, to determine the lowest reasonable cost future PV solar, onshore wind, and
     energy storage resources.

     In addition to the price evaluation process outlined above, energy storage Development
     Proposals and PPA Proposals will be evaluated based on additional benefits those types
     of projects are able to provide. Energy storage Development Proposals and PPA
     Proposals that provide enhanced capacity value will be evaluated more favorably. The
     energy storage project’s duration will be used to evaluate the project’s capacity value as
     defined by PJM. The Company will also assess benefits derived from energy price
     arbitrage (the energy storage system stores low-cost power and sells it at a later time at
     a higher price), and other PJM ancillary markets.
                                                                                              15
D.   Non-Price Evaluation Criteria
     1. Virginia Economic Benefit

        The Company requires utilization of goods or services sourced, in whole or in part,
        from one or more Virginia businesses. The Company will consider each proposed
        facility’s use of labor, materials and other resources within Virginia and from Virginia
        businesses. In evaluating Proposals containing a storage component, extra
        consideration may be given to those located within either a minority community or a
        Federal “Qualified Opportunity Zone” as defined by the Internal Revenue Service.

     2. Experience, Qualifications and Financial Strength

        It is critical that the Company have a high degree of confidence in the Bidder’s ability
        to construct and operate a facility as required under a PPA Proposal. Therefore,
        Bidders must demonstrate they have the experience, qualifications and financial
        strength to successfully execute a Proposal, and will be evaluated as such. The PPA
        Proposal Submittal Date has been extended beyond that for acquisition Proposals to
        allow bidders sufficient time to engage with one or more EPC contractors and
        potentially strengthen this aspect of their Proposal.

     3. Development, Permitting and Approvals Risk


        The Company is seeking PV solar generation, onshore wind generation and energy
        storage to commence commercial operation no later than 2023 and will make
        planning decisions based on the selected Proposal(s). Therefore, the Company will
        evaluate Proposals based on the risk associated with proposed development plans
        and the associated contractual commitments.

        Evaluation of development plans will include review of proposed schedule, budget,
        and Checklist items. Facilities with advanced and well-defined development plans will
        be evaluated more favorably. Proposals that are not site-specific or do not currently
        have land control will be disqualified from the evaluation process.

                                                                                              16
   The Company will not assume any responsibility for the successful and timely
   development of a proposed facility under PPA Proposals, and such development
   schedule, budget, permits and approvals risk will be the sole responsibility of the
   Bidder.

   As reflected in the form asset purchase agreement, Bidders will be required to
   represent and warrant to the Company that there are no facts or circumstances that
   could materially and adversely affect the ability of the Company to construct, own
   and operate the facility in accordance with the development schedule.

4. Technical Review of Facility Design, Equipment and Operations

   The long-term performance of the proposed facility is critical to providing the
   intended value for the Company’s customers. The reliability and capabilities of the
   facility’s design, equipment and operations will be evaluated, including:

   -   Proven equipment and technology from qualified equipment providers

   -   Equipment warranties

   -   Performance guarantees, backed by contractual commitments

   -   Appropriate operating and maintenance plan

   The Company has provided an Equipment and Site Requirements document,
   included as Appendix D to the Form Power Purchase Agreement, which reflects the
   Company’s preferred specifications for PPA Proposals. To the degree a Proposal
   differs from the Appendix D Requirements, such change shall be reflected in the
   markup to the Form Power Purchase Agreement and submitted as part of Bidder’s
   Proposal, accompanied by an explanation of the proposed change and why it would
   not adversely impact the reliability or performance of the facility.

5. Agreement Terms and Conditions

   The Company will rely on the PPA or Asset Purchase Agreement Terms and

                                                                                         17
   Conditions to ensure it receives the intended value of the Proposal and to protect
   Dominion Energy Virginia customers from unnecessary risk. Therefore, the Form
   Agreement mark-up submitted must accurately and fully reflect Bidder’s Proposal
   and is critical to the Company’s proper evaluation of a Proposal and timely
   conclusion of the RFP process.

   Proposals that minimize revisions to the Company’s Form Agreements will receive
   preference in the evaluation process. Additionally, Proposals that provide strong
   commitments to the operation and performance of the facility, backed by a strong
   credit package (per Section III.B.11) will be evaluated more favorably.

   Proposals that do not include an execution-ready agreement, have incomplete edits
   and rationale therefor or that rely on future discussions to finalize, may be deemed
   non- responsive and subject to rejection by Dominion Energy Virginia.

6. Key Risk Factors

   As the Price Evaluation and Non-Price Evaluation reviews are conducted, certain key
   risks will be compiled and included in the final evaluation (“Key Risk Factors”). These
   Key Risk Factors may be unique to a Proposal and while reflected in the Price and
   Non-Price Evaluation, may be significant enough to independently impact the overall
   favorability of a Proposal. For example, if there is significant uncertainty whether a
   key permit for a facility can be secured, jeopardizing the ability of the facility to be
   constructed, then that risk may also be included as an independent consideration in
   the final evaluation.




                                                                                              18
PART III – Proposal Submittals
A.   Proposal Requirements & General Instructions
     Prior to submitting Proposal(s), Bidders must complete an Intent to Bid Form and
     execute a Confidentiality Agreement by the deadline in accordance with Section I.D.

     Bidders may submit more than one Proposal. For multiple Proposals related to a single
     facility, Bidders may provide a single Proposal submittal package that clearly identifies
     the Proposals’ differences. For Proposals that are based on different facilities, Bidders
     should provide a complete and separate proposal submittal package for each facility.

     Bidders must submit Acquisition Proposal(s) on September 1, 2020, no later than 3:00
     PM Eastern Time. PPA Proposals must be submitted on March 1, 2021, no later than 3:00
     PM Eastern Time. Proposals must be submitted electronically via the eRoom. The
     Company will not accept Proposals that are mailed, emailed, or hand delivered.

     The purpose of these requirements and instructions is to acquire sufficient information
     from all Bidders that will ensure a uniform and impartial evaluation and ranking of each
     Proposal. For this reason, the Company requires that Bidders complete all applicable
     items for each Proposal submitted: B: Proposal Summary Submittal, C. Information Form
     Addendum, D. Form Agreements, and E. Additional Requested Documents as described
     in this Part III. Bidders should refer to the applicable RFP Checklist available for
     download on the RFP website for detail on required and requested information to be
     included in each Proposal.

     In order to be accepted as complete, Proposals must contain all the documents and data
     requested in the form and format required. Any Proposals with material omissions or
     incomplete responses to the requested items will be deemed non-responsive and may
     be eliminated from further consideration.


B.   Proposal Summary Submittal
     Bidder’s Proposal Summary must be provided in Microsoft Word or Adobe Acrobat PDF
     file format and contain the following information. Please maintain the order and content
                                                                                                 19
as listed below to facilitate the review of Proposals.

1. Bidder Name, Contact information and Bidder Affirmation

   Proposal(s) must be submitted in the legal name of the actual party or the ultimate
   “upstream” organizational entity that would be bound by any resulting power
   purchase agreement or asset purchase agreement with Dominion Energy Virginia
   and authenticated by an officer or other employee who is authorized to bind Bidder
   to an agreement based on the Proposal(s).

   The first page of the Proposal shall list the Bidder and the Bidder Contact Information
   (Name, Title, Phone, Email Address, and Mailing Address).

   Additionally, it must include the following statement, signed by an authorized
   representative of Bidder:

   “I,         , am an authorized representative of                     (“Bidder”) and hereby
   certify and affirm that: (i) I am authorized to obligate the Bidder to the terms of its
   Proposal; and (ii) the Bidder’s Proposal shall remain binding until June 30, 2021; and
   (iii) neither Bidder nor any person or entity acting or purporting to act on its behalf or
   with Bidder has entered into any combination, conspiracy, agreement or other form
   of collusive arrangement with any person, corporation, partnership or other entity,
   which directly or indirectly has to any extent lessened competition between the
   Bidder and any other person or entity for this RFP.”

2. Proposal Summary: Please provide a brief summary of the Proposal, including key
   information on the facility, and identification of the proposed structure(s) (i.e., PPA,
   Proposal, Development Proposal or MC Proposal). Please highlight any significant
   unique attributes of the facility relative to similarly situated facilities in the industry.

   If submitting multiple Proposals for a single facility, please clearly identify and
   summarize each Proposal in a single Summary.

3. Bidder Summary: Please provide a summary of the Bidder. Summary must include:

                                                                                                  20
       a. Ultimate corporate parent entity and relationship to Bidder,

       b. Prior experience and qualifications of Bidder as it relates to the execution of
           the Proposal, and

       c. Summary of Bidder’s and guarantor’s financial strength and capabilities to
           develop, own and operate the facility as applicable to the Proposal structure
           (PPA or Development Proposal).

4. Key Contributors Summary: Please provide a summary of the experience and
   qualifications of other key contributors. Summary must include:

       a. Prior experience and qualifications of any key developers, engineering,
           procurement and construction contractors, operators, or other key
           contributors specifically as it relates to the execution of the Proposal;

       b. Summary of the status of contractual relationship with each key contributor;

       c. Key contractual assurances, guarantees, warranties or commitments
           supporting the Proposal; and

       d. Past experience of Bidder working with each key contributor.

5. Site Summary: Please provide information on the project site, including:

       a. Bidder rights (owned, leased, under recorded option, executed letter of
           intent) to such site. If applicable, provide details of lease agreement, option,
           or letter of intent terms. Please indicate whether additional land rights
           (including easements) are necessary for the development, construction,
           interconnection and operation of the facility. Note that for Development
           Proposals, projects with land control that cover a 35 year operating life will
           receive preference in the evaluation process.

6. Development Plan: Please provide a summary of Bidder’s development plan, including:

       a. Discussion of the development schedule, and associated risks and risk
                                                                                              21
            mitigants for that schedule, including whether there are contract
            commitments from contractors supporting the proposed schedule. Bidder
            should be prepared to document and commit to proposed development
            schedule.

       b. Discussion of the financing arrangements, including an overview of the
            sources of funds, and level of commitment from debt, equity or other
            investors. Strong evidence of Bidder’s ability to obtain project financing will
            be evaluated favorably.


       c. Discussion on Permitting, including a list of all required permits, permitting
            status of each, and key risks to securing necessary future permits approvals.
            Provide a Permitting Plan as indicated in the applicable RFP Checklist
            document.

       d. Discussion on Interconnection, including status of application, studies and
            agreements, estimated cost, and estimated schedule for completion of
            upgrades.

       e. Discussion on any rezoning that may be required, including the schedule and
            process for rezoning.

       f.   For acquisitions, discussion on tree clearing expectations if applicable. The
            Company will require that all tree clearing be completed prior to taking
            ownership of any facility.

7. Operations and Maintenance Plan: Please provide a summary of the O&M plan for
   the facility. Such plan should include any third-party roles and responsibilities for
   operating, maintaining and servicing the facility, including any contractual
   arrangements currently in place.

8. Environmental Plan: Please provide a summary of all environmental diligence
   completed to date, including any identified concerns and the associated mitigation.

                                                                                              22
   For environmental diligence that remains, please provide a detailed scope and
   schedule that supports a 2023 COD or sooner. All Proposals should include a
   description of planned environmental mitigation measures to minimize impacts to air
   quality during project construction and efforts to minimize the carbon footprint
   associated with the production and transportation of permanently installed
   equipment to the site.

9. Legal Proceedings: Provide a summary of all material actions, suits, claims or
   proceedings (threatened or pending) against Bidder, its Guarantor (if applicable) or
   involving the Proposal facility as of the Proposal due date, including those related to
   employment and labor laws, environmental laws, or contractual disputes for the
   development, construction or operation of the facility.

10. Environmental Violations / OSHA Recordables: Provide a list of all environmental
   violations and OSHA recordable incidents incurred within the last three (3) years by
   the Bidder or its contractors on projects built by Bidder. Also include a description of
   mitigation efforts to address these incidents and the measures that will be employed
   in the future to avoid recurrences.



11. Virginia Economic Impact: Provide a description of the expected use of labor,
   materials and other resources from Virginia and/or Virginia businesses for the
   development, construction and operation of the Proposal facility. Additionally,
   provide a description of the expected benefits to be derived by the industries and
   communities associated with the development, construction and operation of the
   Proposal facility.

12. Project Tax Credits: Development Proposals that include actions that have been
   taken, or a plan to secure the full 30% Federal Solar ITC, or some reduced percentage
   thereof, should detail how that credit is expected to be secured.

13. Project Price: For PPA proposals, provide the PPA Base Price, in $/MWh, applicable
   for the first contract year subject to a 2.5% escalation factor for subsequent years.
                                                                                           23
   For PPA proposals that include a storage component, include a fixed Storage
   Payment per month, in $/MW, for the storage facility subject to a 2.5% escalation
   factor for subsequent years.

   For Development Proposals and MC Proposals, provide the price applicable for
   acquisition of project at the relevant development state. Prices for both PPA
   proposals and acquisition proposals should also be entered in Section B of the
   Information Form Addendum document.

14. Credit Package (PPA proposals only): Provide a summary of the proposed credit
   package (pre-COD and post-COD) to support Bidder’s contractual commitments,
   such as parental guaranties and letters of credit, including amounts/limits. The credit
   package will be required at the time an agreement is executed and shall provide a
   minimum of:

   -   Upon PPA execution: $90/kW

   -   Upon COD and completion of performance demonstration: $60/kW

   Letters of credit provided as part of Bidder’s credit package must be in form and
   substance satisfactory to Dominion Energy Virginia, drawn upon a financial institution
   with a minimum senior unsecured (or equivalent) credit rating of A3 and A- from
   Moody’s and S&P, respectively and acceptable to Dominion Energy Virginia.

   For the Proposal, Bidders may assume that credit packages may utilize guarantees up
   to the credit limits indicated below. However, such limits will be subject to Dominion
   Energy Virginia’s review of individual entities’ credit worthiness, with the limit not to
   exceed 5% of the entities’ tangible net worth (“TNW”) relative to the lower of their
   Moody’s or Standard and Poor’s Senior Unsecured Rating or equivalent:




                                                                                           24
                                  Rating
                         (S&P and Moody's equivalent)               Credit
                         A- / BBB+ or better                  $10,000,000
                         BBB / BBB-                           $2,000,000
                         Below Investment
                         Grade/Unrated                        $0



        The following table provides a hypothetical example of a Bidder’s minimum
        collateral requirement, assuming an 80 MW facility, and a new facility initial
        security amount of $90/kW.


                      Rating
             (S&P and Moody's equivalent)            Credit                Required
                                                                           Collateral
            A- / BBB+ or better                $10,000,000*          $0*
            BBB / BBB-                         $2,000,000*           $5,200,000*
            Below Investment
            Grade/Unrated                      0%                    $7,200,000




        *Approved, unsecured credit assumes Bidder or Guarantor is Investment Graded
        by Moody’s and S&P, or financial reporting submitted for Bidder or Guarantor
        supports an Investment Grade rating. TNW must be a minimum of $144,000,000
        to cover the full $7,200,000 credit package requirement.


C.   Information Form Addendum
     The Information Form Addendum template can be found on the RFP website at
     www.dominionenergy.com/2020SolarWindRFP. The Proposal’s Information Form
     Addendum must be provided in Microsoft Excel file format, and contain the information
     requested as applicable to the Proposal. Please maintain the order and format of the
     worksheets to facilitate the Company’s review of the Proposal.


D.   Form Agreements
     After a Bidder has successfully completed and submitted the Intent to Bid Form and
                                                                                            25
     fully- executed CA, the Company will provide access to the eRoom, which will contain the
     Form Agreements. The Proposal must be accompanied by either (i) an affirmative
     statement that Bidder is taking no exception to the Form Agreements provided pursuant
     to this RFP; or (ii) a fully marked-up Form Agreement that is reflective of its bid, and that
     Bidder deems execution- ready. This is critical for the Company to properly evaluate a
     Proposal, and to ensure the Company can conclude the RFP process in a timely manner.
     Any proposed revisions to the Form Agreements must be clearly marked with specific
     language detailing any such revisions and the accompanying rationale therefor.
     Proposals with incomplete Form Agreement revisions, edits and/or accompanying
     rationale, or that rely on future negotiations to finalize may be deemed non-responsive
     and subject to rejection by Dominion Energy Virginia. While proposed revisions to the
     Form Agreements may be considered, Proposals that minimize such revisions will receive
     preference in the evaluation process.

     In the case of clause (ii) above, Bidder’s Proposal must contain two Form Agreement
     submittal files. The first shall be a file in Microsoft Word or Adobe Acrobat PDF file
     format that reflects all the proposed edits to the Form Agreement, as redline marks. The
     second shall be a file in Microsoft Word format that is a “clean” version, reflecting
     acceptance of all proposed edits. Reasons or explanations for proposed edits can be
     included in the text of the documents, or as a separate file.


E.   Planned Development and Construction Schedule
     Bidder shall provide a Planned Development and Construction Schedule in Adobe
     Acrobat PDF file format, which should include:

            a. Permitting activities for each major permit

            b. Certificate of Public Convenience and Necessity (“CPCN”) and/or DEQ Permit
                by Rule process (for PPA Proposals)

            c. Interconnection Process and Schedule

            d. Major Equipment Procurement (for PPA Proposals)
                                                                                                26
e. Engineering, Procurement and Construction Bid and Award Process (for PPA
     Proposals)

f.   Construction & Commissioning Schedule (for PPA Proposals)

g. Commercial Operations Date




                                                                          27
