                                               NEVADA SYSTEM of HIGHER EDUCATION
                                       BUSINESS CENTER NORTH, PURCHASING DEPARTMENT

                                        REQUEST FOR PROPOSAL (RFP):
                                            E-Commerce System
                                                         RFP No.: 8268
                                                            On behalf of the
                                                  University of Nevada, Reno

                                                           KEY RFP DATES

      TIMETABLE FOR RFP
      Issue RFP                                                                                           Thursday, July 2, 2015
      Question Submittal Deadline                                                                         Thursday, July 9, 2015
      Answers to Questions Deadline                                                                      Thursday, July 16, 2015
      Proposal due Date & Time (Public Bid Opening)                                      2:00pm PST, Thursday, July 23, 2015
      Award Date (Estimated)                                                                          Friday, August 21, 2015

This RFP is issued by the office and person named below. All correspondence, including RFP questions, requests for
clarification, and completed responses should be directed to the office and person named in the box below.

    All proposals must be clearly labeled with this RFP number and the name of the proposer on the outside of the package(s)
         Paper: One (1) original and (1) copies               Electronic Format: (x) USB drive or CD required
                               All paper and electronic copies must be exact duplicates of the original.


                               Nevada System of Higher Education (NSHE)
                                          Business Center North (BCN)
                                        Purchasing Department, Bldg. 137
                              Attention: Melanie Lever, C.P.M., Assistant Director
                                                 RFP No.: 8268
                                            1664 North Virginia Street
                                              Reno, NV 89557-0242
                                              Phone: 775-784-6552
                                               Fax: 775-784-6017
                                             Email: mlever@unr.edu

Please acknowledge receipt of this document by emailing mlever@unr.edu. Include with your acknowledgement your
company’s name and contact person along with postal address, email address, fax and telephone number.
All costs incurred in the preparation and submission of the response to this RFP shall be the responsibility of the
Proposer. Recipients of an RFP who do not wish to submit a proposal should email the above listed buyer or send a letter
to the above address stating “NO BID” in reference to the RFP number in question.

Any communication with University staff regarding this Request for Proposal without prior approval of the above individual
may result in the rejection of your proposal.

Note: All communication and updates regarding this RFP will be posted at the following website:
http://www.bcn-nshe.org/purchasing/solicitations/
(Current solicitations are listed first. Scroll down past current solicitations to see results once bid is awarded.)

                                                Business Center North Purchasing Department:
                             Desert Research Institute • Great Basin College • Truckee Meadows Community College
                                             University of Nevada, Reno • Western Nevada College
                                          NSHE System Administration • System Computing Services
                                                        http://www.bcn-nshe.org/purchasing/
                                                   E-Commerce System
                                                            RFP No.: 8268


                                                     Table of Contents
                                                                                                                                   Pages

SECTION 1: PROPOSAL PREPARATION .................................................................................................... 3


      A. Issuing Authority

      B. Instructions

      C. General Terms and Conditions

      D. Required Certificates / Vendor Information

      E. References


SECTION 2: STATEMENT OF WORK ........................................................................................................ 12

      A. Overview

      B. Scope of Work


SECTION 3: PROPOSAL REQUIREMENTS .............................................................................................. 13

      A. Proposal Submittal Requirements

                  1. Cost / Pricing

                  2. Response Format




RFP# 8268                                                                                                                  Page 2 of 15
      SECTION 1: PROPOSAL PREPARATION

A. Issuing Authority:

     The Nevada System of Higher Education (NSHE), Business Center North (BCN) Purchasing Department is
     the Issuing Authority for this RFP and for questions concerning the RFP process. All correspondence and
     questions pertaining to the content of this RFP must be emailed to the issuing Purchasing buyer listed
     below.
            BCN Contact:                                           Project Manager:

               Melanie Lever, C.P.M.                                       Jeff Springer
               BCN Purchasing                                              Information Technology
               1664 N. Virginia Street, Mail Stop 0242
               Reno, Nevada 89557-0242
               775-784-6552
               mlever@unr.edu

B.    Instructions

     1. Preparation, Format of Proposals:
        Proposals shall be signed by an individual authorized to commit the company or corporate entity and to conduct
        discussions, if required, prior to issuance of a contractual document resulting from this Request for Proposal
        (RFP). The NSHE reserves the right to reject any or all proposals, or to make an award in the best interests of
        the NSHE and the University to the selected proposer(s) without further discussion or negotiations. It is solely the
        proposer’s responsibility to submit their proposal in the format required. Failure to do so may result in your
        proposal being declared non-responsive.

            Specific elements of a properly prepared proposal include:
            a) The name of the proposer, the RFP number and page number must appear on each page.
            b) The person signing the proposal must initial erasures or other changes.
            c) All cost information must be submitted separately, following the balance of the proposal.
            d) All proposers must submit a minimum of three references with similar installations with the products and
               services specified in the Request for Proposal Statement of Work.
            e) All proposers shall submit all contracts and agreements expected to be executed should they be selected as
               the awarded vendor for vetting by NSHE and the University.

            The suggested format to be followed is:
                  Complete Table of Contents;
                  Introduction or executive summary;
                  Unequivocal statement of proposer’s agreement to all terms and conditions with clear explanations of any
                   exceptions;
                  List of a minimum of three references including complete contact information;
                  Signed Certifications of Non-segregated Facilities, Non-Discrimination in Employment, and Debarment,
                   Suspension or Ineligibility;
                  Detailed description of proposal that includes content requested in Sec.3, Statement of Work.

     2. Submission of Proposals:
        Proposals should be prepared simply and economically, providing a straightforward, concise description of the
        respondent’s capability to satisfy the requirements of the proposal.

            Proposals shall be sealed and mailed or hand carried so as to arrive at the location designated herein no
            later than the time and date set for receipt of the proposals.

            This Request for Proposal number and the name of the proposer shall appear on the outside of the package for
            the number of hard copies specified in the RFP Statement of Work following these formats:
                • Acceptable electronic formats are Microsoft Word, Microsoft Excel and Adobe PDF.
                • Electronic copies must be supplied on a USB drive or CD when required.
                • FAXED or EMAILED proposals will not be accepted.
RFP# 8268                                                                                                      Page 3 of 15
    3. Modification of Proposals:
       The proposer may modify Proposals at any time if mailed or hand carried so as to arrive on or before the date and
       time set for receipt of proposals.

    4. Withdrawal of Proposals:
       Proposals may be withdrawn by email, written or fax notice received by the NSHE prior to the due date and time
       of this proposal.

    5. Proposal Opening Procedure:
       Proposals shall be opened by the NSHE BCN Purchasing Department, in a manner that avoids disclosure of
       contents to competing proposers. A register of proposals containing the names of all responses received shall be
       prepared and retained by the Director of Purchasing. This register shall be open for public disclosure after
       contract award, except as otherwise outlined herein.

    6. Late Proposals:
       Proposals, modifications, or withdrawals received after the date and time set for receipt of this proposal will not be
       considered. Proposals received after the due date and time will be rejected and returned unopened upon
       request, at the expense of the proposer. The proposer is responsible for ensuring third party deliveries arrive at
       the time and place indicated in this document.

    7. Validity of Proposals:
       Proposals in response to this Request for Proposal shall be valid for a period of ninety (90) days from the due
       date of the proposal.

    8. Confidential/Proprietary Information:
       Proposals are not to Contain Confidential/Proprietary Information. NSHE is subject to the Nevada Public Records
       Law, Nevada Revised Statutes, Chapter 239. Pursuant to NRS 239.010, et seq., each and every document
       provided to NSHE is presumed to be a "public record" open to inspection and copying by any person. Proposals
       must contain sufficient information to be evaluated without reference to any confidential or proprietary information.
       Any Proposal submitted that is marked "confidential" or "proprietary," or that contains materials so marked, may
       be returned to the Proposer and not be considered for award.

            All Information in Proposals will be released pursuant to a Public Records Request. The NSHE advises that the
            content of your proposal or other information submitted to the NSHE is subject to public release, upon request,
            after contract award. If there is a request under the Public Records Law to inspect any part of the proposal
            including any information marked as "confidential" or "proprietary," NSHE will give no less than 14 calendar day
            notice to the Proposer of NSHE's intent to release all information requested in order to allow the Proposer the
            opportunity to seek court protection from public release of the information which the Proposer asserts is
            confidential. In the absence of an order by a Nevada court, with jurisdiction over NSHE, not to release the
            requested information or documents, it will be released.

            NSHE is not liable for disclosure of Proposer's documents or information. NSHE shall not in any way be liable to
            Proposer for the disclosure of any information contained in Proposer's response to the RFP. Furthermore,
            Proposer represents and warrants that any document or information it provides to NSHE does not contain
            proprietary or confidential information owned or controlled by a third-party. If NSHE is required to defend an
            action with regard to information or documents provided by Proposer that is alleged to contain confidential or
            proprietary information owned or controlled by a third-party, Proposer shall defend and indemnify NSHE, its
            officers, employees and agents from and against any and all such claims, demands, losses, damages, costs and
            expenses, including attorney's fees and costs.

    9. Evaluations:
       Proposals will be evaluated in terms of the completeness and quality of features contained in the Proposal,
       compliance with the RFP process, pricing, proven track record, references, timeline, payment terms and previous
       performance with NSHE or the specific University. Evaluation criteria defined in this RFP will be used by the
       evaluators to determine the best qualifying proposal. NSHE shall not be obligated to accept low bid, but will make
       an award in the best interest of NSHE after careful evaluation of all proposals received. Not meeting a certain
       criteria does not necessarily exclude a respondent from the evaluation.



RFP# 8268                                                                                                       Page 4 of 15
            Evaluation Criteria:

            The University/College will review all accepted responses based on the following criteria:

                    Criteria
                •   Compliance w/ RFP specifications
                •   References
                •   Experience and Financial Stability
                •   Pricing/payment terms
                •   Number of features provided by the service
                •   How closely the provided features align with the requested items

    10. Oral Presentation:
        NSHE reserves the right to require any or all Proposers to make a formal, oral presentation. The presentation
        may be either in-person at a designated site specified by NSHE or a web based meeting. The Purchasing
        Department shall coordinate the scheduling of any presentations required. Each proposer should be prepared to
        discuss and substantiate all areas of its proposal. In conducting discussions, there shall be no disclosure of any
        information derived from proposals submitted by competing proposers. The proposer shall be responsible for all
        costs associated with the presentation.

    11. Rejection of Proposals:
        NSHE reserves the right to reject any and all proposals received, or any part thereof. Proposals may be rejected
        for any of, but not limited to, the following causes:

            •   Proposal lacks signature by an authorized representative of Proposer;
            •   Evidence of collusion exists between the Proposers;
            •   Proposer fails to meet the terms and conditions as specified in the RFP;
            •   Evidence submitted by the Proposer leads NSHE to believe that Proposer will be unable to carry out the
                obligations of the agreement and to complete any or all of the work described;
            •   NSHE investigation determines the Proposer is not qualified to meet the obligations of the agreement and
                complete work described;
            •   Proposed cost of services exceeds budgetary constraints.

    12. Protests:
        A person who bids on a contract may file a notice of protest regarding the awarding of a contract within 5
        business days after the date the recommendation to award a contract is issued. The notice shall be delivered to
        the Director of BCN Purchasing and must include a statement specifying the basis for the protest, with specific
        reference to the applicable NRS provisions the protesting party alleges have been violated. Any notice of protest
        that is not submitted within 5 business days after the recommendation to award a contract will not be considered
        and any untimely filing of a notice of protest shall constitute a waiver of the right to file the protest.

            A person filing a protest will be required to post a protest bond with a solvent surety authorized to do business in
            Nevada. The bond posted or other security must be submitted with the notice of protest and must be in an
            amount equal to 25% of estimated total value of the contract. The failure to post the required bond, or late
            posting of such bond, shall be constitute a waiver of the right to file the protest.

            The notice of protest will be reviewed by the Director of BCN Purchasing who will render a decision within 5
            business days. If the protesting party is not satisfied with the Director’s decision, an appeal may be submitted to
            the Vice President of Finance & Administration within 5 business days after the date the Director of BCN
            Purchasing issues the decision on the notice of protest. The Vice President of Finance & Administration will
            render a final decision, and no further appeal will be permitted.

            All costs incurred in responding to the bid protest will be deducted from the protest bond, unless the protest is
            upheld in which case the bond or other form of security will be returned.

            By submitting a notice of protest, the protesting party agrees that NSHE will not liable for any costs, expenses,
            attorney’s fees, loss of income or other damages sustained by the protesting party in the protest process and
            waives any and all claims for such costs, expenses, attorney’s fees, loss of income or other such damages.
RFP# 8268                                                                                                          Page 5 of 15
    13. Award of Contract:
        The Director of Purchasing reserves the right to enter discussions with any or all proposers after the NSHE has
        initially reviewed proposals. This Request for Proposal may result in the award of contract(s) to the most
        qualified responsive and responsible proposer whose proposal, after evaluation by the NSHE and University, is
        considered the most advantageous to the NSHE and the University.
        This Request for Proposal will be subject to "evaluation" by the NSHE BCN Purchasing Department and the
        University. The proposer is solely responsible for ensuring the content of its proposal meets the evaluation criteria
        set forth in the Request for Proposal. Additional, previously published information describing product features and
        capabilities and/or the vendor’s capabilities and track record will be evaluated if such data is current and reflects
        the proposer’s existing situation.
        The BCN and the University reserve the right to reject any or all proposals and to waive minor irregularities not
        considered by the NSHE to be essential to the evaluation process. The NSHE and the University may, at their
        option, award parts of tasks if the Scope of Work lends itself to division and it is in the best interest of the NSHE
        and the University.
        NSHE reserves the right, where appropriate, to request "Best and Final" offers. Such responses shall be subject
        to all provisions, and terms and conditions as set forth in the Request for Proposal, unless otherwise modified.

            Contractual commitments are contingent upon the availability of funds as evidenced by the issuance of a signed
            purchase order. Agreements may be subject to the approval of NSHE’s legal counsel and may require Board of
            Regents approval prior to execution.

            Unless specifically stated herein, if a conflict or inconsistency exists between the terms set forth in this RFP
            document and successful Proposer’s proposal, the language in this RFP document shall take precedence.

    C. General Terms and Conditions

            The following terms and conditions govern the RFP process and any agreement(s) entered into as a result of
            award of this RFP:

    1. Term of Contract:
       In the event a contract is entered into resulting from this awarded RFP it shall be for an initial period of one (1)
       year with options to renew in additional one-year (1) increments unless otherwise specified in this Scope of Work.
       Any contract term(s) will be mutually agreed upon. Contract renewals may be based on satisfactory vendor
       performance in compliance with original proposal requirements.

    2. Governing Law:
       All contracts resulting from award of this RFP shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of
       Nevada. No action involving this contract may be brought except in the district and federal courts located in
       Washoe County, Nevada, USA.

    3. Contract Representatives:
       The Director of Purchasing will handle most contractual matters.           A designated manager(s) for the
       University/College will address day-to-day operations as well as specific procedural matters. Vendors are
       expected to designate and maintain comparable representatives with authority to carry out their duties.

    4. Assignment:
       The Vendor shall not assign the contract in whole or in part without the express written consent of the Director of
       Purchasing nor shall the Vendor have the right to authorize or permit the use of NSHE facilities by third parties
       without the express written consent of the NSHE.

    5. Termination:
       The contract, or any portion of the contract, may be canceled for convenience by the NSHE, by giving sixty (60)
       days written notice to the vendor.
       The contract, or any portion of the contract, may be canceled for "just cause" by the NSHE, by giving sixty (60)
       days written notice to the vendor. "Just cause" is defined as unsatisfactory performance or as any failure on the
       part of the vendor to comply with any of the provisions or terms and conditions of the contract.

RFP# 8268                                                                                                       Page 6 of 15
            In the event the vendor fails to materially carry out or comply with any of the terms and conditions of the
            established contract, the Director of Purchasing reserves the right to demand remedy of any failure or default
            within ten (10) days of notification. In the event the vendor fails to remedy the failure or default within the
            specified period, the Director of Purchasing shall have the right to terminate all or any part of the established
            contract in accordance with Terms and Conditions of the contract document.
            It is understood and agreed, notwithstanding the provisions, terms and conditions of this RFP, that in the event
            any recognized funding authority fails to appropriate sufficient funds to the using department to enable obligations
            to be fulfilled under the award contract, the NSHE will notify the Vendor by giving sixty (60) days written notice.
            The NSHE will reimburse the Vendor for all services rendered through the end of the sixty (60) day notification
            period.

    6. Joinder Clause
       Within the parameters of NRS 332.195 – “Joinder or mutual use of contracts by local governments” and with the
       agreement of the vendor, the NSHE may join, or mutually use, the contracts or pricing agreements of appropriate
       federal, state, and local entities and consortiums. Where the NSHE uses the original contract in order to obtain
       quantity pricing or other competitive discounts, the original contract is not liable for the obligations of the NSHE.
       The requirements for competitive quotations and/or formal bidding may be considered satisfied through the use of
       the joinder contracts, including federal/state/local contracts, consortium agreements, and educational pricing
       agreements.

    7. Service of Notice:
       Any notice may be served effectively upon the NSHE by delivering it in writing to the Nevada System of Higher
       Education, Business Center North, 1664 N. Virginia St. MS/242, Director of Purchasing, Reno, Nevada 89557-
       0242, or by depositing it in a United States Mail Box with postage prepaid and addressed to the Director of
       Purchasing at the previously stated address.

    8. Liability:
       The Vendor, in performance of contract, shall release and discharge the Nevada System of Higher Education and
       the Board of Regents from liability for, and assume the risk of, loss or damage to property of the Vendor. Further,
       the Vendor shall save the Nevada System of Higher Education and the Board of Regents harmless from and
       defend against all losses, all liabilities, expenses and other detriments of every nature and description, to which
       the Nevada System of Higher Education and the Board of Regents may be subjected by reason of any negligent
       act or omission of the Vendor, or any of the Vendor's subcontractors, employees, agents, invitees or licensees
       where such loss, liability, expense or other detriment arises out of or in connection with the performance of work
       under the contract, including, but not limited to liens, personal injury and loss of or damage to property of the
       Nevada System of Higher Education or others.

    9. Insurance Requirements:
       Contractor shall, at Contractor’s sole expense, procure, maintain, and keep in force proper insurance for the
       duration of the Contract conforming to BCN Risk Management’s minimum requirements which can be found at the
       following website:

            http://www.bcn-nshe.org/downloads/riskmgmt/NoticeToContractors.pdf

            Vendor must agree to add the “Board of Regents of the Nevada System of Higher Education” as an additional
            insured entity to the vendor’s commercial general liability policy and include a waiver of subrogation.

            Unless specifically noted herein or otherwise agreed to by BCN Risk Management, the required insurance shall
            be in effect on or prior to the commencement of work by Contractor and shall continue in force as appropriate until
            the latter of:
            a. Final acceptance by (Campus/College/Department) of the completion of this contract; or
            b. Such time as the insurance is no longer required by (Campus/College/Department) under the terms of this
            contract.

            Note: Deductibles in excess of $100,000 and self-insured programs will require review and approval on a case-
            by-case basis.

    10. Evidence of Insurance:
        Contractor shall provide the following documents in their proposal response:
RFP# 8268                                                                                                          Page 7 of 15
            •   Certificate of Insurance: the Accord 25 Certification of Insurance form to evidence the insurance policies and
                coverage required of Contractor.

            •   Upon award of any contract, Contractor will be required to provide an updated Accord 25 Certification of
                Insurance including the required additional insured status and related endorsements.

    11. Worker’s Compensation Insurance:
        For work performed on campus, Nevada Law requires that the Contractor shall provide worker’s compensation
        insurance as stated in NRS 616B.627 or proof that compliance with the provisions of NRS Chapter 616A-D and all
        other related chapters is not required. The Contractor shall require the same insurance when the work is to be
        performed by a subcontractor. Certificates of Contractor’s insurance shall be filed with the Nevada System of Higher
        Education, Business Center North’s Director of Purchasing prior to commencing work.

    12. Change Orders:
        Changes in the scope, work or design, after award of contract, may be made or altered, increased or decreased.
        In such event, the Vendor shall furnish a written cost estimate of the work to be added or omitted and, thereafter,
        shall not proceed to make any change(s) until a written Change Order has been issued by the Nevada System of
        Higher Education, Business Center North's Director of Purchasing or designee.

    13. Contracts / Purchases by the Vendor:
        The vendor shall not use the name of the NSHE or the University in contracts with suppliers or in any other
        manner. The Vendor shall make all contracts in its own name and the Vendor alone shall be responsible for
        those purchases and contracts. Nothing herein shall be construed as creating the relationship of partners, joint
        ventures, or agency.

    14. Codes/Regulations:
        Vendor shall be responsible for complying with all City, County, State and Federal Codes and Regulations, as
        applicable, in the performance of the Contract.

    15. Liquidated Damages:
        It is hereby mutually agreed, between the Vendor and NSHE, that Contract Time is an essential condition of the
        Contract. The Vendor agrees that all work shall be prosecuted regularly, diligently, and without interruption at a
        rate of progress that will ensure completion of the Work within the Contract Time. It is expressly understood and
        agreed, by and between the Vendor and NSHE, that the time for completion described in the Contract Documents
        is an acceptable time for the completion, taking into consideration the average climatic range and usual industrial
        and labor conditions prevailing in the locality of the Work. If the Vendor shall neglect, fail, or refuse to complete
        the Work within the specified Contract Time, as it may be extended by Change Order, then the Vendor does
        hereby agree, as a part of the consideration for receiving the award of the Contract, to pay to NSHE, not as a
        penalty, but as liquidated damages, the amount of money specified for each and every excess calendar day that
        is required to complete the Work.
        The unit amount of liquidated damages is established as one percent (1%) of the Contract Amount for every
        Calendar Day after the Contract Time that the Work is not complete, and is a minimum and fixed amount mutually
        agreed upon by and between the Vendor and NSHE due to the impracticability and extreme difficulty of
        ascertaining in advance the actual damages NSHE would sustain should the Work not be completed within the
        Contract Time. Should monies due the Vendor for work performed be insufficient to cover such liquidated
        damages, then NSHE shall have the right to recover said sum or sums from the Vendor, from his Surety, or both.
        Liquidated damages will be assessed against the Vendor for the time that is required to complete the Contract
        over and above the authorized Contract Time. All changes to authorized Contract Time shall be set forth in
        Change Orders. Liquidated Damages shall cease to be assessed on the date of Notice of Completion.

    16. Claims for Damages:
        Should either party to the Contract suffer injury or damage to person or property because of any act or omission
        of the other party or of any of his employees, agents, or others for whose acts he is legally liable, claim shall be
        made in writing to such other party within 14 days after the first knowledge of such injury or damage. Any costs
        caused by defective or ill-times work shall be paid by the Vendor.

    17. Contractor’s License:
        All Bidders shall be licensed by the State of Nevada to do the type and value of work contemplated in this project.
        If applicable, the successful bidder shall possess a valid and applicable Contractor's License issued by the
        Nevada State Contractors Board under the provisions of Chapter 624 of Nevada Revised Statutes, at the time of
RFP# 8268                                                                                                        Page 8 of 15
            submitting his bid. All bidders shall ensure that all sub-bids utilized in preparing the bid have been obtained from
            subcontractors who are properly licensed on the bid date by the Nevada Contractors Board to perform their
            portion of the work. A subcontractor named by the bidder who is not properly licensed for that portion of the work
            is unacceptable.

            The bidder shall provide an acceptable subcontractor within 48 hours of discovery of the exception and before
            any further work on the project is undertaken. Bidders proposing to submit a “Joint Venture Bid” shall obtain the
            written approval of the Nevada State Contractors Board prior to submitting such a bid and shall include a copy of
            that approval with their bid submittal.

    18. Taxes, Permits, Fees and Notices:
        The Contractor shall pay all sales, consumer, use, and other taxes required by law. The Contractor shall secure
        and pay for all permits, fees, and licenses necessary for the proper execution and completion of the Work. The
        Contractor shall not be required to pay for a municipal or county building permit, or permanent utility connection
        fees.
        The Contractor shall give all notices and comply with all laws, ordinances, rules, regulations, and orders of any
        public authority bearing on the Work and NSHE. If the Contractor observes that any of the Contract Documents
        are at variance therewith, he shall promptly notify NSHE and/or Architect. If the Contractor performs any work
        knowing it to be contrary to such laws, ordinances, rules, and regulations, and without such notice, he shall
        assume full responsibility therefore and shall bear all costs attributable thereto.

    19. Warranty:
        Contractor shall fully warrant all materials, equipment, and service against poor and inferior quality or
        workmanship for a period of not less than one (1) year from date of final acceptance by the NSHE. Time is of the
        essence of this contract. Contractor shall repair or replace any inoperable materials or equipment in a timely
        manner during warranty period.

            The Contractor shall unconditionally guarantee the workmanship and materials of the entire contract to be free of
            defects and remain free of defects in workmanship and materials for a period of one year from date of completion
            or acceptance of the final payment by the Contractor, or as called for in the specifications.
            Each subcontractor shall unconditionally guarantee the workmanship and materials of his portion of the Contract
            to be free of defects and remain free of defects in workmanship and materials for a period of one year from the
            date of completion or acceptance of the final payment by the Contractor, or as called for in the specifications.
            Such guarantees shall be signed by the Subcontractor and shall be countersigned by the Prime Contractor who
            shall be responsible for the entire Work.

    20. Disadvantaged Vendor Enterprise:
        The Nevada System of Higher Education and Business Center North recognize the benefit of creating an equal
        opportunity for all vendors to participate in the procurement process; Business Center North is committed to
        diversity and nondiscrimination in its business operations. Accordingly, NSHE will make a good-faith effort to
        utilize minority business enterprises, women-owned business enterprises, disabled business enterprises,
        veteran/disabled or veteran-owned business enterprises, and small business enterprises throughout the
        procurement process. This effort does not equate to a quota or set percentage. All efforts to contact and engage
        small, minority, disabled, veteran, and women vendors will be fair and impartial.

    21. Compliance with US Employment Law:
        The awarded Contractor, sub-contractor and all applicable staff, required to fulfill the requirements of the award of
        this contract, whether in the form of a purchase order and/or a formal contract, shall be in compliance of all
        federal, state and local laws, in regards to employee eligibility to work in the United States. Failure to comply with
        this requirement may result in termination of the contract.

D. Required Certifications
             All proposers are required to certify and attest to their company’s compliance with the below statements.
                                 These certifications must be followed by an authorized signature.

      1. BUSINESS LICENSE:
            Bidders are required to possess all necessary business licenses for performance of the work described in the bid.
            NSHE may require successful bidder to provide evidence of such license at any time.

            1)   Are all registrations with the Secretary of State regarding your business organization current?

RFP# 8268                                                                                                               Page 9 of 15
                                                            (This does not apply to a sole proprietorship or partnership that is not required to
                                                                      file its organizational documents with the Secretary of State).
                 Yes                        No


            2)   Provide your current Nevada state business license number. If you don’t have a Nevada state business license,
                 what exemption from that requirement do you claim?

                 Current Nevada State Business license number:

                 What exemption from that requirement do you claim?




      2. CERTIFICATION OF NONSEGREGATED FACILITIES
            By submitting a bid, the undersigned bidder, vendor or subcontractor certifies to the Nevada System of Higher
            Education and the Department of Defense that he does not and will not maintain or provide for his employees any
            segregated facilities at any of his establishments, and that he does not and will not permit his employees to perform
            their services at any location under his control where segregated facilities are maintained. The bidder, vendor or
            subcontractor understands that the phrase “segregated facilities” includes facilities which are in fact segregated on a
            basis of race, color, creed or national origin because of habit, local custom, or otherwise. The bidder, vendor or
            subcontractor understands and agrees that maintaining or providing segregated facilities for his employees or
            permitting his employees to perform their services at any location under his control, where segregated facilities are
            maintained is a violation of the equal opportunity clause required by Executive Orders 11246 and 11375, Section 503
            of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, and USC 2012 (Disabled Veterans and Veterans of the Vietnam Era).
            The bidder, vendor or subcontractor understands and agrees that a breach of the assurance herein contained
            subjects him to the provisions of Order 32 Federal Regulation 7439, of the Secretary of Labor dated May 19, 1967,
            and the provisions of the equal opportunity clause enumerated in purchase orders or contracts between the Nevada
            System of Higher Education and the bidder, vendor or subcontractor.
            Whoever knowingly and willfully makes any false, fictitious or fraudulent representation may be liable to criminal
            prosecution under 18 USC 1001.

    3. NON-DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT
       By submitting a bid, during the performance of this contract, the contractor agrees as follows:
           a. In connection with the performance of work under this contract, the contractor agrees not to discriminate
                       against any employee or applicant for employment because of race, creed, color, national origin, sex, sexual
                       orientation, gender identity or expression, or age, with regard to employment, upgrading, demotion or
                       transfer, recruitment or recruitment advertising, layoff or termination, rates of pay or other forms of
                       compensation, and selection for training, including, without limitation, apprenticeship. The contractor further
                       agrees to insert this provision in all subcontracts hereunder, except subcontracts for standard commercial
                       supplies or raw materials. The contractor agrees to post in conspicuous places, available to employees and
                       applicants for employment, notices to be provided by the contracting officer setting forth the provisions of
                       this nondiscrimination clause.
                 b. The contractor will, in all solicitations or advertisements for employees placed by or on behalf of the
                       contractor, state that all qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race,
                       creed, color or national origin.
                 c.    The contractor will send to each labor union or representative of workers with which he has a collective
                       bargaining agreement or other contract or understanding, a notice to be provided by the agency contracting
                       officer, advising the labor union or workers representative of the contractors commitments under Section
                       202 of Executive Order 11246 of September 24, 1965, and shall post copies of the notice in conspicuous
                       places available to employees and applicants for employment.
                 d. The contractor will comply with all provisions of Executive Orders 11246 and 11375, Section 503 of the
                       Rehabilitation Act of 1973, USC 2012 (Disabled Veterans and Veterans of the Vietnam Era) and of the rules,
                       regulations, and relevant orders of the Secretary of Labor.
                 e. The contractor will furnish all information and reports required by Executive Orders 11246 and 11375, and
                       by the rules, regulations, and orders of the Secretary of Labor, or pursuant thereto, and will permit access to
                       his books, records, and accounts by the contracting agency and the Secretary of Labor for purposes of
                       investigation to ascertain compliance with such rules, regulations, and orders.
                 f.    In the event of the contractor's noncompliance with the nondiscrimination clauses of this contract or with any
                       other such rules, regulations, or orders, this contract may be canceled, terminated, or suspended in whole or
                       in part and the contractor may be declared ineligible for further government contracts in accordance with
                       procedures authorized in Executive Orders 11246 and 11375, and such other sanctions may be imposed
                       and remedies invoked as provided in the said Executive Order or by rule, regulation, or order of the
                       Secretary of Labor, or as otherwise provided by law.
RFP# 8268                                                                                                                                 Page 10 of 15
                g. The contractor will include the provisions of paragraphs (a) through (g) in every subcontract or purchase
                     order unless exempted by rules, regulations, or orders of the Secretary of Labor issued pursuant to Section
                     204 of Executive Order 11246 of September 24, 1965, so that such provisions will be binding upon each
                     subcontractor or vendor. The contractor will take such action with respect to any subcontract or purchase
                     order as the contracting agency may direct as a means of enforcing such provisions including sanctions for
                     noncompliance: provided, however, that in the event the contractor becomes involved in, or is threatened
                     with, litigation with a subcontractor or vendor as a result of such direction by the contracting agency, the
                     contractor may request the United States to enter into such litigation to protect the interests of the United
                     States.
                h. The contractor and subcontractor shall abide by the requirements of 41 CFR §§ 60‐300.5(a)
                     and 60‐741.5(a). These regulations prohibit discrimination against qualified individuals on the
                     basis of protected veteran status or disability, and require affirmative action by covered
                     prime contractors and subcontractors to employ and advance in employment qualified
                     protected veterans and individuals with disabilities.

    4. CERTIFICATION REGARDING DEBARMENT SUSPENSION OR INELIGIBILITY FOR AWARD
       (Executive Order l2549)
            By submitting a bid, the offer or certifies, to the best of its knowledge and belief that the offeror and/or any of its
            principals are not presently debarred, suspended, proposed for debarment, or declared ineligible for the award of
            contracts by any Federal agency, and have not, within a three-year period preceding this offer, been convicted of or
            had a civil judgment rendered against them for: commission of fraud or a criminal offense in connection with
            obtaining, attempting to obtain, or performing a Federal, state or local government contract or subcontract; violation of
            Federal or state antitrust statutes relating to the submission of offers; or commission of embezzlement, theft, forgery,
            bribery, falsification or destruction of records, making false statements, tax evasion, or receiving stolen property; and
            are not presently indicted for, or otherwise criminally or civilly charged by a Government entity with, commission of
            any of these offenses.

    5. CLEAN AIR ACT:
            By submitting a bid, the bidder affirms and certifies that the Proposer agrees to comply with all applicable standards,
            orders or regulations issued pursuant to the Clean Air Act of 1970 (42 U.S.C. 1857 et seq.) and the Federal Water
            Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1251 et seq.) as amended. Violations shall be reported to the Federal sponsoring
            agency and the Regional Office of the Environmental Protection Agency.

    6. COPELAND “ANTI-KICK BACK” ACT:
            By submitting a bid the bidder affirms and certifies that the Proposer shall comply with provisions of the Copeland
            “Anti-Kick Back” Act (18 U.S.C. 874) as supplemented in Department of Labor regulations (29 CFR, Part 3), which act
            provides that each Proposer shall be prohibited from inducing, by any means, any person employed in the
            construction, completion or repair of public work, to give up any part of the compensation to which he is otherwise
            entitled.

    7. PREVAILING WAGE:
            In the case of non-federally funded projects, Washoe County prevailing wages apply as determined by the State of
            Nevada Labor Commission.

    8. DAVIS-BACON ACT:
            When required by the federal program legislation, all construction contracts awarded by the recipients and sub-
            recipients of more than $2,000 shall include a provision for compliance with the Davis-Bacon Act (40 U.S.C. 276a to
            a-7) and as supplemented by Department of Labor regulations (29 CFR, Part 5). Under this Act Proposers shall be
            required to pay wages to laborers and mechanics at a rate not less than the minimum wages specified in a wage
            determination made by the Secretary of Labor. In addition, Proposers shall be required to pay wages not less than
            once a week. The recipient shall place a copy of the current prevailing wage determination issued by the Department
            of Labor in each solicitation and the award of a contract shall be conditioned upon the acceptance of the wage
            determination. The recipient shall report all suspected or reported violations to the federal sponsoring agency.

    9. EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY:
            By submitting a bid, the bidder affirms and certifies that the Proposer shall comply with provisions of Executive Order
            No. 11246, entitled “Equal Opportunity,” as amended by Executive Order No. 11375, and as supplemented in
            Department of Labor Regulations (41 CFR, Part 60). The Equal Opportunity Clause is included herein as Federal
            Government Regulations, Section 2, Equal Opportunity Clause.




RFP# 8268                                                                                                                     Page 11 of 15
    10. PCI SECURITY COMPLIANCE:
            Applicable vendors must comply with the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI DSS). The PCI Data Security
            Standard requirements apply to all payment card network members, merchants and service providers that store, process or
            transmit cardholder data. The requirements apply to all methods of credit card processing; the most comprehensive and
            demanding of which apply to e-commerce websites, and retail POS systems that process credit cards over the Internet. PCI
            official website at: https://www.pcisecuritystandards.org.

    11. WCAG 2.0 LEVEL AA COMPLIANCE:
        Vendors must comply with World Wide Web Consortium Content Accessibility Guidelines version 2.0, Level AA
        conformance.

    Proposer certifies that their proposal meets all specifications, terms and conditions contained herein.

            Yes_______ No_______
                   If no, proposer must explain all deviations and exceptions in writing and attach to their bid response.


            COMPANY NAME:

            Authorized Business Partner Company Name: (If applicable)




            TAX IDENTIFICATION NUMBER:


            NAME AND TITLE:


            ADDRESS:


            CITY, STATE, ZIP:


            TELEPHONE :(_____)                                      FAX NUMBER :(_____)


            WEB PAGE:                                               EMAIL ADDRESS:


                                  This form must be completed and signed (manual or electronic)
                                          by an authorized person and returned with bid.
                        If this is not completed, entire bid may be considered non-responsive and void.



                              SIGNATURE                                                                Date
                                                We do hereby certify to the above Section 1E.




RFP# 8268                                                                                                                    Page 12 of 15
     E. References
            Provide the name and contact number of at least 3 references.

                                                                                                         Years of
                                                                                                         experience with
Company Name           Contact Name       Address              Telephone            E-mail               this client
1.

2.

3.

4.

5.

6.


SECTION 2: STATEMENT OF WORK

A. Overview
   The University of Nevada Reno is looking for a single organization but multi-vendor ecommerce solution for
campus to support departmental online sales needs. The solution would provide a single ‘online mall’ type
experience for users wishing to purchase goods and attend events at the University. While not all components
need to be provided by a single company, they will all need to work together in a seamless manner.

     B. Scope of Work

     1) General
           a. PCI Version 3 certified
           b. API or ability to integrate with back end financial systems such as Workday for reconciliation
           c. Ability to customize the merchant line that is printed on the customer’s credit card/bank draft per store.
           d. Scheduled reporting with email notification
           e. Ability to schedule data extracts and secure transfer
           f. Administration ability to “run as customer” read only mode - helps with troubleshooting with customers
           g. Ability to export user Bio information
           h. Option to charge a “Transaction Fee” on any transaction type
           i. Ability to toggle Bio fields as optional/required
           j. Ability to have Attributes/custom fields on all forms

     2) Web based stores
           a. Standard shopping cart functionality
           b. Ability to add items from multiple stores and perform a single check out
           c. Each store should support a separate merchant ID
           d. Store branding
           e. Payment gateway branding consistent with stores.
           f. Mobile device support via mobile formatted website
           g. Per store or per merchant ID reconciliation reports
           h. Ability to control which credit cards are accepted on a per store basis
     3) Mobile Point of Sale
           a. Handheld POS devices that support P2PE
           b. Integration of POS devices with store front
           c. Integration of POS with event registration and check-in


RFP# 8268                                                                                                     Page 13 of 15
    4) Donations/Recurring Gifts
           a. Recurring Gifts
                     i. Ability to have irregular schedules
                    ii. Ability to skip payment transactions with an email notification option to the store owner and/or
                        donor.
                   iii. Credit Card update service – Expired Credit Cards/Number changes are updated automatically
                   iv. Ability to see/adjust payment schedules – both user and administrator
                    v. Ability to set predetermined schedules regardless of the first payment
                   vi. Ability to send pre-notification of next payment by payment type
           b. Ability to set warning on LARGE donation amounts (For example, donor enters a 10K gift and before it
               processes provide a warning to the donor).
    5) Event Registration
           a. Ability to enter complete Bio information for all guest
           b. Ability to register individuals and organizations
           c. Ability to purchase event paraphernalia (raffle tickets, mulligans, t-shirt and sizes, meal options, etc.)
           d. Ability to send event participants (and their guest emails) update on the event (event reminders, change
               of venue, etc.)
           e. Ability to have promotion codes with/without limiting option
           f. Ability to set event to shut down on capacity and/or a specific date
           g. Check in capability for the event
           h. Global refund in the event that the event is cancel
           i. Ability to have linked events or event groups (Register for multiple basketball pregame dinners, parent’s
               weekend, etc.)
    6) Memberships
           a. Ability to track current membership level and provide upgrade/downgrade paths
           b. Ability to opt out of membership gifts
           c. Ability to select membership gifts
           d. Ability to add an additional donation as part of the membership
           e. Ability to have gift of memberships
    7) Online Auctions
           a. Ability for user to set automatic bid increments to a maximum value
           b. Option to set a “Purchase” now value for an item and remove it from the auction
           c. Online invoicing and payments for winning bids
           d. Inventory management – ability to upload individual and groups, and attached PDF documents
           e. Ability to dynamically set bidding increments – if the item is “hot” experiencing a lot of traffic – increase
               the increment by a certain dollar amount or a percentage.
           f. User Notification option when a bid changes/notification of being outbid
           g. Auction Preview with a “reminder” option when the auction opens
           h. Ability to categorize auction items
           i. Ability to set shipping rates per item
           j. Upload pre-registered user name/passwords
           k. Security features
                     i. Trace/track IP of bidder
                    ii. Ban users
                   iii. Delete bids
                   iv. Email notification for bid anomalies (extraordinary bid amounts)
           l. Set currency
           m. Winning/losing notifications
           n. Sealed Bidding option




RFP# 8268                                                                                                      Page 14 of 15
SECTION 3: PROPOSAL REQUIREMENTS


 A. PROPOSAL SUBMITTAL REQUIREMENTS:

            Proposers interested in submitting a response to this Request for Proposal should provide a succinct summary
            that addresses the following:

                      •   Support of each of the above mentioned items. In the case that the item is not directly supported
                          please describe an alternative solution if one is available.
                      •   In the case a demonstration is required we will provide a list of features that we would like to see.
                          An online web demo will be acceptable.
                      •   Three references from Universities using the proposed version of the software.

       1. Response format:

            Vendors shall submit their response in the following format for ease in evaluation:
                 Item number/letter
                 Yes/No
                 Name of module or service providing the functionality and a short description if applicable.


       2. Cost / Pricing:

            Pricing should be provided separately as detailed below and based on the specifications stated in the
            Section 2B - Scope of Work. (Excel Spreadsheet format suggested and repeat format as required)

            Pricing should be broken out into the following items:
                      1. Professional services if applicable
                      2. Yearly contractual pricing for referenced services
                      3. Per device cost of any devices referenced in the proposal
                      4. Hardware maintenance costs of any devices referenced in the proposal if applicable.


                             PLEASE NOTE: If awarded a new W9 and Vendor Application must be completed.
                                  Link:http://www.bcn-nshe.org/purchasing




RFP# 8268                                                                                                        Page 15 of 15
