                                               RFP for lnformat¡on Technology Assessment and Strategic Plan
                                                                                   Specification No 680721




                     REQUEST FOR PROPOSAL ("RFP") FOR
    INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY ASSESSMENT AND STRATEGIC PLAN

                                 Specification No. 680721

                                    Required for use by:

                                 CITY OF CHICAGO
                      (Department of lnnovation and Technology)




                                 This RFP distributed by:

                                  CITY OF CHICAGO
                         (Department of Procurement Services)

       All proposals and other communications must be addressed and returned to

                         Jamie L. Rhee, Chief Procurement Officer
                  Attention: Joseph Chan Senior Procurement Specialist
                              joseph. chan@cityofch icago. org
                                       312 -744-7659
                           Department of Procurement Services
                          Bid & Bond Room - Room 103, City Hall
                                  121 North LaSalle Street
                                   Chicago, lllinois 60602

A Pre-Proposal Conference will be held on June 20,2018, 1 1.00 AM Central Time, City Hall,
         11th Floor, Room# 1103,121North LaSalle Street, Chicago, lllinois 60602.
                      Attendance is Non-Mandatory but encouraged.

 PROPOSALS MUST BE RECEIVED NO LATER THAN 4:00 P.M., CENTRAL TIME, ON
                            July 27,2018



RAHM EMANUEL                                 JAMIE L. RHEE
MAYOR                                        CHIEF PROCUREMENT OFFICER
                                                          RFP for lnformation Technology Assessment and Strategic Plan
                                                                                              Specification No. 680721




                              DEPAR'TMENT OF PROCUREMENT SERVICES

                                        CITY OF CHICAGO

    Dear Vendor:

 Under the leadership of Mayor Rahm Emanuel, the City continues to identify ways contractors can be
 good corporate citizens, enhance the City's business community, and improve small businesses'
 chances of being successful City contractors. The City has several bid incentives and programs
 designed to benefit local businesses, small businesses and utilization thereof, and reward corporate
 responsibility and community awareness, including bid incentives for apprentice utilization, city-based
 businesses, city-based manufacturers, project-area subcontractors, veteran/small business joint
 ventures, and the use of alternatively powered vehicles, as well as the diversity credit program.
 lnformation about      all of the Cíty's        programs          and incentives can be found                     at
 www. cityofchicago.oro/city/en/depts/dps/provdrs/comp.    html.

One program that you may not be aware of is the City's Mentor-Protégé Program ("Program"). Under
this Program, a prime contractor mentor is eligible to receive (1) a      1o/o bid incentive; and (2) an
additional 0.5 percent participation credit for every one percent of the value of the contract performed
by a subcontractor MBEA/úBE protégé (in addition, instead of being mentored by the prime, can be
mentored by a first-tier subcontractor), up to a maximum of five additional percentage points of
utilization credit. The mentor and protégé must enter into a formal, written agreement that must be
approved by the Chief Procurement Officer and that describes how the mentor-protégé relationship
will develop the capacity of the MBEA¡úBE protégé firm to become self-sufficient, competitive, and
profitable.

The Mentor-Protégé Program thus embodies two of the City's most important goals: fostering
economic development through the growth of small þusinesses and connecting our communities to
one another through lasting relationships that may not otherwise have formed. We enbourage you to
make connections at pre-bids and other networking events, contact the assist agenciesl for vendors
specializing in the area of work you are looking to subcontract, and search our MBEA/r/BE directory
online, with the hope that you will take advantage of this Program.

Please also review the following additional reminders about bidding, contracting, and compliance.

Please read lnstructions for Bidders. Reouests for Proposals and Requests for Qualifications
carefullv. We understand that government solicitations for bids, proposals and qualifications contain a
lot of information and may have mandatory forms to complete. However, errors and omissions in
your bids, proposals and qualifications cost both you and the City time and money, since non-
responsive bids must be rejected. Rejected bids may result in your firm not getting the contract and
increase the cost of work to the City.

1For a list of assist agencies, visit
www.citvofchicago.orq/contenUdam/citv/depts/dps/ContractAdministration/Forms/AssistAgenciesJune20'16
Jedf.
                                                          RFP for lnformation Technology Assessment and Strategic Plan
                                                                                              Specification No 680721




 lf you have a quest¡on, ask us. The tel ephone number and e-ma¡l address of the indívidual from DPS
 who is responsible for each solicitation is stated on the cover page of that solicitation. Call or write us
 - we are here to assist you. However, please keep in mind that in regards to bid solicitations, we
 must communicate answers to anything but the most general questions to all firms in the vendor pool.
 This is usually done via an addendum.

                                              ment and utilization of small mt
disadvantaqed owned businesses. ln each bid solicitation, you receive a list of the City's registered
assist agencies. As you plan for meeting your MBEAffBE goals, remember to contact the assist
agencies. They have members holding certification in a variety of disciplines. Please utilize them
whenever you have contracting needs. ln fact, contacting these agencies well in advance of the bid
opening dafe is a requirement for demonstrating good faith efforts to obtain MBEA/VBE participation if
you request a reduction or waiver of goals.

All subcontractors must be approved bv the Chief Procurement Officer A contractor may not make
any substitution for a previously approved subcontractor unless the substitution is acceptable to the
Chief Procurement Officer. All requests to substitute subcontractors must be submitted on the
appropriate form.


gortion of the work from the City. Failure to pay your subcontractors within the seven-day time period
may subject you to fines or other penalties.

Vendors are reouired to reoort oavments to all subcontractors and suooliers in C2 The City's
Certification and Compliance Management system, C2, allows prime contractors to report MM/DBE
utilizatíon quickly and efficiently through a web-based format while simultaneously allowing
subcontractors the ability to confirm payment activity.

EDSs must be kept up to date. Vendors are required to fill out an Economic Disclosure Statement
('EDS') prior to award of a contract. Until final completion of the project, you must provide, without
need for request by the City, an updated EDS if there is any change in ownership or change in any
other circumstance that would render the EDS then currently on file inaccurate or obsolete. Failure to
provide an updated EDS when required is an event of default.


submit activitv reports every quarter. For more information regarding this requirement, please contact
the City of Chicago Board of Ethics. lnformation about the Board may be found at
www. cityofch icaq   o.   orq/eth ics.

Check the Debarred Vendor List. Prior to submitting a bid, or for existing contracts, a request for
approval of subcontractors, you must check the list of debarred vendors to make sure that
you are not proposing the use of a firm that is ineligible to do business with the City.
The list of vendors ineligible to do business with the City may be found at
www.citvofchicaqo.oro/city/en/depts/dps/provdrs/debarred firms list.html.

Comply with prevailinq waqe and minimum waoe requirements. Pursuant to the lllinois Prevailing
Wage Act, (or Davis Bacon Act for federally funded contracts), contractors and subcontractors must
pay laborers, workers and mechanics performing services on public works projects no less than the
current "prevailing rate of wages" (hourly cash wages plus amount for fringe benefits) in the county
where the work is performed and, no later than the tenth day of each calendar month, file a certified
payroll for the immediately preceding month with the public body in charge of the project.
Additionally, pursuant to Mayoral Executive Order 2014-1, the minimum wage* must be paid to all
employees regularly performing work on City property or at a City jobsite, and all employees whose
regular work entails performing a service for the City under a City contract. For more information

                                                     ¡i
                                                        RFP for lnformation Technology Assessment and Strategic Plan
                                                                                            Specification No. 680721



 about the prevailing wage, visit www.illinois.qov/idol/Laws-Rules/CONMED/Paqes/prevailinq-waqe-
 rates.aspx. For a copy of Mayoral Executive Order 2014-1 regarding minimum wage, visit

 Comolv with the United States Deoartment of Labor Occuoational Safetv & Health Administration
 ("OSHA"I laws and requlations. Under the Occupational Safety and Health Act, employers are
 responsible for providing a safe and healthful workplace. OSHA's mission is to assure safe and
 healthful workplaces by setting and enforcing standards, and by providing traíning, outreach,
 education and assistance. Employers must comply with all applicable OSHA standards. Employers
 must also comply with the General Duty Clause of the OSH Act, which requires employers to keep
 their workplace free of serious recognized hazards. For more information, visit www.osha.qov/law-
 reqs.html.

                eMu                                          The City is a signatory to the PLA, which
 applies to all contractors and subcontractors of any tier performing construction work, including
 construction, demolition, rehabilitation, maintenance, and/or renovation of real property located in
 Chicago. See the relevant sections of the bid specification for more information.


 Cook Workforce Partnership. On construction projects of $100,000 or more, at least 50% of the total
hours worked must be provided by City residents, and at leasl 7.5o/o of the hours worked must be
provided by residents of the project area. The City and Cook County have partnered to provide job
training and collaborate with unions, among other workforce development initiatives. For more
information and to request assistance with complying with Chicago residency and project area
residency requirements, visit www.workforceboard.oro/businesses or call (312) 603-7066.

Q¡lra¡{¡   ¡la l^o   mr ro{   fha qnraamanfhafrrraan fha c¡ rJr¡anira¡fnr   fha n rime ¡nnfranfnr A
subcontractor's signature on the Schedule C means it has agreed to the scope and price of work that
is described therein. We strongly caution against subcontractors signing and sending blank Schedule
Cs to prime contractors.

                                                                                                               On
 December 2, 2014, the City Council of the City of Chicago passed a new chapter of the Municipal
Code, 1-24, specifying a minimum wage to be paid to all workers within the City of Chicago - not just
employees of City contractors - effective July 1 , 2015. For work performed on City contracts, a
Contractor must pay the highest of (1) prevailing wage/Davis-Bacon rate, if applicable; (2) minimum
wage specified by Mayoral Executive Order 2014-1*; (3) "Living Wage" rate specified by MCC Sect.
2-92-610; (4) Chicago Minimum Wage rate specified by MCC Chapter 1-24*; or (5) the highest
applicable State or Federal minimum wage. ln addition, S 1-24-045, Paid Sick Leave, which was
passed in 2016, requires all employers of employees performing work in the City to provide paid sick
leave, effective July 1,2017.

 Note that there are different tvpes of waivers of lien. A Conditional Waiver and Release tJpon
 Progress Payment is used when the claimant is required to sign a waiver and release in exchange
for, or in order to, induce a progress payment, and the claimant has not yet been paid. A Conditionat
 Waiver and Release Upon Final Paymenf is used when the claimant is required to sign a waiver and
release in exchange for, or in order to induce a final payment, and the claimant has not yet been paid.
Remember, any outstanding balance that is owed to the claimant or retainage held should be noted in
the balance section of the waiver of lien. An Unconditional Waiver and Re/ease lJpon Prcgress
Payment is used when the claimant is required to sign a waiver and release in exchange for, or in
order to, induce a progress payment, and the claimant asserts in the waiver that he or she has
received the progress payment. An Unconditional Waiver and Release Upon Final Paymenf is used
when the claimant is required to sign a waiver and release in exchange for, or in order to, induce a
final payment and the claimant asserts in the waiver that he or she has received the final payment.


                                                  ilt
                                                     RFP for lnformation Technology Assessment and Strategic Plan
                                                                                         Specification No. 680721


Please take a moment to fill out the optional survey that follows this letter to help us gain a better
understanding of your firm. Thank you for your attention to these important matters, and we look
fonruard to partnering with you on future City contracts.


        Sincerely,



             ie L.
          hief Procurement Officer




                                                IV
                                                               RFP for lnformation Technology Assessment and Strategic Plan
                                                                                                   Specification No. 680721


PLEASE NOTE: Do not return this survey with your bid, as it is optional and does
not affect the evaluat¡on of your bid. lf you choose to complete the survey, please
fax it to 312-744-0010 or email it to dps.feedback@cityofchicaqo.orq.

Vendor Name ("Vendor")

Date:

   (1) Does Vendor have a formal tracking and reporting system of energy/utility/waste/water usage to
         identify trends and unusual fluctuations and usage?



   (2) Does Vendor have an awareness program for energy conservation that includes regular
       communication to employees about avoiding wasteful practices and encourages turning off lights
        and other devices when not in use?



        lf so, are reminder signs posted in appropriate locations?

   (3) Has a policy or practice been adopted to avoid or prohibit the use of high energy-consuming
        outdoor advertising (such as LED billboards)?



   (4) Are employees instructed to shut down personal computers at the end of each work period?



        Are computers set to turn off monitor, hard drive, or go on standby after 30 minutes or less of
        inactivity, or are network/system controls used to minimize energy use in idle work stations?




  (5) Are supplies and cleaning products chosen based on a goal of minimizing harmful or hazardous
      contents?




  (6) ls preference given whenever practicable to local suppliers and products produced locally or
        regionally?




                                                     V
                                                              RFP for lnformation Technology Assessment and Strategic plan
                                                                                                  Specification No. 68072,1


(7) What percentage of Vendor's full-time employees identify as

       a.   White                                       o/o



       b.   Black or African-American                   o/o



       c.   Hispanic                                    o/o



       d. Asian                                         o/o



       e.   Other                                       o/o



(8) What percentage of Vendor's full{ime employees identify as:

       a. Male                          o/o



       b.   Female                      o/o




                                              vi   ,'
                                                                    RFP for lnformation Technology Assessment and Strategic Plan
                                                                                                        Specification No. 68072'1




           TABLE OF CONTENTS
 I.        GENERAT     INVITATION                                                                                              .........      1
      A.          Purpose of the Request for     Proposa1.................                                        .....................       1
      B.          Background.                                                                                           ............... 1
      C.          lnternet Access to this   RFP..............                                                       ................... 3




  A.    Description of Services...                                                                                     ................ 4
  B.    Contract Performance Schedule.....                                                                        ....................4
IV. GENERAT INFORMATION AND GUIDETINES.                                                                                                      4
  A.    Communications Between the City of Chicago and Respondents.............                                                              4
    1. Submissíon of Questions or Requests for Clarifications.                                                                               5
    2. Pre-ProposalConference..                                                                                                              5
      B.         Deadline and Procedures for Submitting Proposals                                                                            5
      c.         RFP lnformation Resources ..............,...                                                                              6
      D.         Procurement Timetable                                                                                                     6
      E.         Transparency Website: Trade Secrets ..................                                                                    7

V.         PREPARING PROPOSALS: REQUIRED INFORMATION                                                                                       8
      A.         Format of Proposals                                                                                                       8
      B.         Required Contents of Proposal                                                                                             8
           l,    Cover Letter                                                                                                              I
           2.    ExecutiveSummary.....                                                                                        9
           3.    Professional Qualifications and Specialized Experience of Respondent and Team Members
                 Committed to this Pro¡ect........                                                                            9
           4.    Professional Qualifications, Specialized Experience and local Availability of Key Personnel Who Will
                 be Dedicated to the Services described in this RFP                                                          TL
           5.    lmplementation and Management P1an...........                                          .................... lz
           6.    Dedicated   Resources....                                                                          ................    13
           7.    Schedule of Compensation / Cost      Proposal......                                            ....................    13
           8.    Minority and Women Business Enterprises   Commitment..................                                        ......   L4
           9.    Financial  Statements.                                                                          ...................    15
           10.   Economic Disclosure Statement and Affidavit ("EDS") and Attachment A: Online            EDS
                 Acknowledgement..                                                                             ..................... 15
           tL,   legal Actions                                                                                          ............ 15


VI
     A.
     B.          Evaluation Criteria                                                                                                    T7



vilt. ADDITIONAT         DETAITS OF THE RFP PROCESS                                                                                     20
     A.          Addenda                                                                                                                20
     B.          City's Rights to Reject Proposals                                                                                      2t
     c.          No tiability for Costs                                                                                                 2t
     D.          Prohibition on Certain Contributions.- Mayoral Executive Order No. 2Ot1.-4                                             2L
     E.          False Statements.............                                                                                          22
     F.                                                                                                                             .23



                                                                                                                                        vii
                                                          RFP for lnformation Technology Assessment and Strategic Plan
                                                                                              Specification No 680721




                                                   EXHIBITS

 EXHIBIT 1: SCOPE OF SERVICES.                                                                                         24

EXHIBIT 2: COST PROPOSAI...                                                                                            27

EXHIBIT 3: COMPANY PROFITE INFORMATION                                                                                28

ExHlBlT 4: COMPANY REFERENCES/CtlENT PROFItE 1NFORMAT1ON.................                                             29

EXHIBIT 5: MBE/WBE SPECIAI CONDITIONS AND SCHEDUtES..............                                                     30

1.   SPECIAT CONDITIONS REGARDING MINORITY BUSINESS ENTERPRISE COMMITMENT AND WOMEN
BUSINESS ENTERPRISE COMMITMENT FOR COMMODITIES OR SERVICES                                                            30

   t.2.    Definitions                                                                                                31

   t.4. Counting MBE/WBE Participation Toward the Contract Specific Goals                                               34
   1.5. Regulations Governing Reductions to or Waiver of MBE/WBE Goals                                                  35
      1.5.1. Direct / lndirect Participation                                                        ................... 36
      1,.5.2, AssistAgencyParticipationinwavier/reductionrequests......                                                 37
      1.5.3. lmpracticability..............                                                                             37
   1.6. Procedure to Determine Bid Compliance                                                                           38
  L.7.    Reporting Requirements During the Term of the Contract.................                                       39
  1.8.   Changes to Compliance Plan ,........                                                                         40
     1.8.1. Permissible Basis for Change Required..                                                                   40
     L.8.2,   Procedure for Requesting Approval                                                                       4t
  1.9.    Non-Compliance and Damages                                                                                  4L
  1.10.   Arbitration                                                                                                 42
  t.tt.   Equal EmploymentOpportunity                                                                                 42
  t.L2.   AttachmentsandSchedules..................                                                                   42
     Attachment A -Assist Agency List ..............                                                          44
     Attachment B - Sample Format for Requesting Assist Agency Comments on Bidder's Request for
          Reduction or Waiver of MBE/WBE Goals ..........                                  ...................46
     Schedule B - Affidavit of Joint Venture.......                                             ...........,,.47
     Schedule C-1: letter of lntent From MBE/WBE To Perform As Subcontractor, Supplier andlo¡ Consultant
                                                                                                     ................. 52
     Schedule   D-l: Affidavit of lmplementation of MBE/WBE Goals and Participation      Plan                         53

EXHIBIT 6: ONtINE ECONOMIC DISCTOSURE STATEMENT AND AFFIDAVIT (EDS) INSTRUCTIONS AND
          ATTACHMENT A: ONUNE EDS   ACKNOWTEDGEMENT                                     ........... 58

EXHIBIT 7: CONTRACT INSURANCE REqUIREMENTS AND INSURANCE CERTIFICATE       ...................... 66
EXHIBIT 8: CONTRACTUAT REQUIREMENTS RETATED TO HIPAA....                                   ........7t
EXHIBIT 9: CITY OF CHICAGO SAMPTE PROFESSIONAT SERVICES AGREEMENT                        .,....,...72
EXHIBIT 10: [OCA[ AND OTHER PREFERENCES: ADJUSTMENTS TO THE COST PROPOSAI...           ...........,..73

EXH|B|T 11: DATA POUCY / DATA W|TH CONTRACTOR..........                         .....................83




                                                                                                                    vilt
                                                  RFP for lnformation Technology Assessment and Strategic Plan
                                                                                      Specification No. 680721




                              REQUEST FOR PROPOSAL ("RFP")
                                                for
             INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY ASSESSMENT AND STRATEGIC PLAN

                                     Specification No. 680721


I.   GENERAL INVITATION
     A.   Purpose of the Reguesf for Proposal

     The City of Chicago ("City"), acting through its Department of lnnovation and Technology
     ("DolT"), is pleased to invite the submission of proposals for conducting an independent
     citywide information technology ("1T") assessment and strategic planning project. The
     Selected Respondent will evaluate opportunities within the current environment, draft a
     strategic roadmap to align the City's lT efforts and resources with business goals and
     objectives as well as best practices and industry standards, and be guided by Mayor
     Emanuel's vision of Chicago as a city that fuels technology opportunity, inclusion,
     engagement, and innovation for all. The assessment and plan should be fonruard-looking,
     consider modern service delivery methods, and address future lT requirements in an
     expeditious, efficient, and cost-effective manner.

     The Assessment (as further described/defined below) will evaluate technology
     infrastructure and systems maintained by City departments, citywide lT structure and
     organization, and opportunities within current technical and business processes. The
     results of the Assessment, as well as executive and statf input, will be used to develop the
     Strategic Plan (as further described/defined below), which will provide actionable steps to
     address immediate, short- and long-term risks and needs, and set-up the City to adopt
     cost-effective and best of breed technologies to better serve its residents, businesses, and
     visitors.

     Respondents should bring experience evaluating and assessing public sector lT
     infrastructure, systems, and resollrces, developing strategic technology plans, and
     technical expertise related to lT management and operations. Respondents should also
     have experience in the primary government service domains: health and human services,
     public safety, infrastructure, and finance and administration.


      B. Background

     The City delivers many services to over 2.7 million residents, hundreds of thousands of
     businesses, and millions of visitors, and employs over 30,000 staff. The Department of
     lnnovation and Technology (DolT) is one of 30 departments and is its central lT
     organization, providing technology and telecommunications services to departments, the
     Mayor, Aldermen, residents, businesses and tourists.

     DolT provides network engineering, network infrastructure, network file & print services
     and administration, email administration, network authentication and access administration,
     network security and administration, lnternet access and administration, desk side and

                                                                                                           1
                                                 RFP for lnformation Technology Assessment and Strategic Plan
                                                                                     Specification No, 680721


 help desk support to City staff, informat¡on security, data management and analytics, and
 custom and off-the-shelf enterprise systems development and support. Many of DolT's
 services are provided directly to City staff, but the department also builds and maintains
 external-facing web applications and publ¡c technology services, such as public Wi-Fi and
 computer access, as well.

 DolÏ also supports Mayor's Emanuel's vision to realize Chicago's potent¡al as a city where
 technology fuels opportunity, inclusion, engagement, and innovation for all by:
o    Facilitating creative thought to improve existing City processes
.    Designing and implementing systems to power processes and services
.    Leveraging data to drive decision-making and improve City service delivery
.    Piloting and evaluating new technologies
.    Producing and contributing to open source projects
.   Supporting public access to technology at City facilities
o    Building strategic partnerships

DolT is currently organized as follows:


                   Department of lnnovat¡on & Technology

                                                                  ftttubn
                                                                ffiù &tiÉ   D+uly



                                oigÈl EFigEc e
 ¡Éñfu   r¡xúity                    oú¡Eû                                                                       r.óMoF&ñr




                                                     'tiltr¡T




More information about DolT may be found at citvofchicaqo.orq/doit.

ln addition to DolT, many departments have dedicated lT staff, and all other 29
departments have one or more lT Service Coordinato(s) (lTSCs). The latter is not a
position, but rather a designation of responsibilities to coordinate activities such as
employee and contractor on-boarding and off-boarding, and the rollout of enterprise lT
initiatives or changes. ITSCs are also usually system administrators for department-specific

                                                                                                          2
                                                       RFP for lnformation Technology Assessment and Strategic Plan
                                                                                           Specification No 680721


       applications. The former group usually supports department-specific technologies as
       system administrators and/or sometimes technical/engineering resources. Overlap may
       exist between the former and latter group. IT scope varies by department with the largest
       scopes in avíation, finance, fleet and facilities management, public safety, transportation,
       and water management. More information about the City's departments may be found at
       citvofchicaqo.org.



       C. lnternef   Access to this RFP

       All materials related to the RFP will be available on the internet at:
       www. cityofch icago. orgibids.

       This is a technology RFP and the City expects Respondents to have full access to
       technology. The City also intends to cut its costs while adhering to environmentally
       conscious practices; therefore, the City will not provide hardcopies of this RFP,
       Clarifications and/or Addenda.

      All Respondents are responsible for obtaining all RFP materials. lf
                                                                        Respondent
      chooses to download and print an RFP document, the Respondent must contact the
      City of Chicago, Department of Procurement Services, B¡d & Bond Room by
      emailing BidandBond@cityofchicago.org to register Respondent's company as an
      RFP document holder, which will enable the Respondent to receive any future
      clarifications and/or addendum related to this RFP.
      A Respondent who chooses to download an RFP solicitation instead of picking it up in
      person will be responsible for checking the aforementioned web site for clarifications
      and/or addenda, if any. Failure to obtain clarifications and/or addenda from the web site
      shall not relieve Respondent from being bound by any additional terms and conditions in
      the clarifications and/or addenda, or from considering additional information contained
      therein in preparing your Proposal. Note, there may be multiple clarifications and/or
      addenda. Any harm to the Respondent resulting from such failure shall not be valid
      grounds for a protest against award(s) made under the solicitation.

      The City accepts no responsibility for the timely delivery of materials or for alerting
      Respondents on posting to the DPS website information related to this RFP.


II.       DEFINITIONS

      The following defined terms have the meanings specified below.
      NOTE: lf a defined term is used only once, then it may be defined within the context in
      which it appears in that paragraph or section.

      "Agreement" means the City of Chicago's Professional Services Agreement, including all
      exhibits attached to it and incorporated in it by reference, and all amendments,
      modifications, or revisions made in accordance with its terms, as attached in this RFP in
      Exhibit 9.



                                                                                                               3
                                                    RFP for lnformation Technology Assessment and Strategic Plan
                                                                                        Specification No. 680721


        "Budget Director" means the chief executive officer of the City of Chicago Office of
        Budget and Management ("OBM')

        "Chief Procurement Officer" or "CPO" means the Chief Procurement Officer of the City
        of Chicago and any representative duly authorized in writing to act on her behalf.

        "Commissioner" or "GlO" means the Chief lnformation Officer of the City of Chicago
        Department of lnnovation and Technology, and any representative authorized in writing to
        act on the City Commissioner's behalf.

        "Contractor" or "Consultant" means the Respondent awarded a contract pursuant to this
        RFP process.

        "Department" or "DOIT" means the City of Chicago Depadment of lnnovation and
        Technology.

        "EC" means the Evaluation Committee appointed to review and assess all Proposals, and
        make its recommendations to the Commissioner concerning its evaluations.

        "Proposal" is the written content and documents submitted by a Respondent in response
      to this RFP.

      "Respondent" means the primary entity which submits a Proposal in response to this RFP
      and may include subcontractors and other affiliates.

      "Selected Respondent" means the awardee of the contract from this RFP

      "Services" means performance of all tasks, activities and deliverables as described in
      detail in Exhibit 1, Scope of Services and performed by qualified and licensed personnel of
      the selected Contractor from this RFP.



 III.      SCOPE OF SERVICES

           A.    Description of ServÍces
      The services that the City seeks to acquire are described in detail in the Scope of Services,
      Exhibit 1.

           B.    Contract Pertormance Schedule
      Any contract awarded pursuant to this RFP solicitation shall be performed according to
      the schedule for Contractor's performance as described in Exhibit 1, "Scope of
      Services."


IV.        GENERAL INFORMATION AND GUIDELINES

      A.   Communications Between the City of Chicago and Respondents



                                                                                                             4
                                               RFP for lnformation Technology Assessment and Strategic Plan
                                                                                   Specification No 680721


     1. Submission of Questions      or Requests for Clarifications

Respondents must commun¡cate only with the Department of Procurement Services.
All questions or requests for clarification must be ín writing, sent by e-mail, and directed to
the attention of Joseph Chan, joseph.chan@cityofchicago.org, Department of Procurement
Services, Room 806, City Hall and must be received no later than 4:00 p.m. Central Time,
on June 25, 2018. Respondents are encouraged, but not required, to submit questions
prior to the scheduled Pre-Proposal Conference.

All questions and requests for clarification must be submitted via e-mail." The subject line
of the email must clearly indicate that the contents are "Questions and Request for
Clarification" about the RFP and are "Not a Proposal" and must refer to "Request for
Proposal ("RFP") for lnformation Technology Assessment and Strategic Plan, Specification
No.680721." No telephone calls will be accepted unless the questions are general in
nature.


     2.   Pre-Proposal Conference

The City will hold a Pre-Proposal Conference at City Hall, 11th Floor, Room #1103, 121
North LaSalle Street Chicago, lllinois 60602 at 11:00 AM Central Time on June 20, 2018.
All parties interested in responding to this RFP are urged to attend in person. The City
requests that all parties planning on attending the Pre-Proposal Conference notify Joseph
Chan prior to the Pre-Proposal Conference. The e-mail communication shall include the
names, titles, e-mail address and phone number of each attendee.
The City will answer questions and clarify the terms of the RFP at the Pre-Proposal
Conference. The City may respond both to questions posed on the day of the conference
and to questions e-mailed prior to conference. Anything stated at this Pre-Proposal
Conference is not intended to change the solicitation document. Any changes will be in
writing in the form of an addendum issued by the Department of Procurement Services.

B.   Deadline and Procedures for Submitting Proposals

1. To be assured of consideration,  Proposals must be received by the City of Chicago in
     the City's Bid & Bond Room (Room 103, City Hall) no later than 4:00 P.M. Central Time
     on TBD. The Bid & Bond Room can be reached at telephone number 312-744-9773.

2. Ïhe City may but is not required to accept Proposals that are not received by the date
     and time set forth in Section lV.B.1 above. Only the Chief Procurement Officer is
     empowered to determine whether to accept or return late Proposals.
     Failure by a messenger delivery service or printing service to meet the deadline will not
     excuse the Respondent from the deadline requirement. Hand-carried Proposals must
     be placed in the depository located in the Bid & Bond Room located in Room 103, City
     Hall. The time of the receipt of all Proposals to this RFP will be determined solely by
     the clock located in the Bid & Bond Room of City Hall. lt is Respondent's sole
     responsibility to ensure that the Proposal is received as required.




                                                                                                        5
                                               RFP for lnformation Technology Assessment and Strategic Plan
                                                                                   Specification No. 68072'1


 3.   Proposals must be delivered to the following address:
                     Jamie L. Rhee, Chief Procurement Officer
                     City of Chicago
                     Department of Procurement Services
                     Bid & Bond Room
                     Room 103, City Hall
                     121 North LaSalle Street
                     Chicago, lllinois 60602

4.    Respondent must submit t hardcopy original, and 6 individual electronic copies of the
      original in one searchable pdf format, and a separate redacted copy of the entire
      Proposal or submission, with Pricing/Cost Proposal completed in Excel, all on a USB
      drive or CD-ROM. The original hardcopy must be clearly marked as "ORIGINAL" and
      must bear the original signature of an authorized officer on all documents requiring a
      signature. Copies must be exact duplicates of the ORIGINAL. Respondent must
      enclose all documents in sealed envelopes or boxes.
5.    The outside of each sealed envelope or box must be labeled as follows:

                    Proposal Enclosed
                    Request for Proposal (RFP) for lnformation Technology Assessment
                    and Strategic Plan
                    Specification No. 680721
                    Due: Jufy 27,2018 4:00 p.m. Gentral Time,
                    Submitted by: (Name of Respondent)
                    Package  _     of _
6.    The City's opening of Respondent's sealed envelope(s) or package(s) containing a
      Proposal shall neither be deemed nor constitute acceptance by the City of
      Respondent's Proposal. The City reserves the right to open and inspect all such sealed
      envelope(s) or package(s), regardless if the same were submitted by the due date and
      time specified herein, for any purpose, including without limitation, determining the
      particular RFP to which Respondent has responded, or determining if a Proposal was
      submitted by the date and time specified herein.

C.    RFP   lnformation Resources

Respondents are solely responsible for acquiring the necessary information or materials.
lnformation for preparing a response to this RFP can be located in the following areas of
the City's website : www. citvofch icaoo. oro/Procurement:

.    Search MBEA /BE Directory Database
o    Pre-Bid/Proposal Conference Attendees
.    Addenda and Exhibits, if any.

D. Procurement Timetable
The timetable for the RFP solicitation is summarized below             Note that these are target
dates and are subject to change by the City.

                                                                                                         6
                                                  RFP for lnformation Technology Assessment and Strategic Plan
                                                                                      Specification No. 680721




      Key Activity                                        Target Date

      City lssues RFP                                     June I 1,2018

      Non-Mandatory Pre-Proposal Conference               June 20,2018

      Proposal Questions Due                              June 25,2018

      Proposals Due                                       July 27,2018


 E.   Transparency Website: Trade Secreús

Consistent with the City's practice of making ava¡lable all information submitted in response
to a public procurement, all proposals, any information and documentation contained
therein, any additional information or documentation submitted to the City as part of this
solicitation, and any information or documentation presented to City as part of negotiation
of a contract or other agreement may be made publicly available through the City's lnternet
website. However, Respondents may designate those portions of the Proposal which
contain trade secrets or other proprietary data ("Data") which Respondents desires remain
confidential.

To designate portions of the Proposal as confidential, Respondent must:
      1.   Mark the cover page as follows: "This Proposal includes trade secrets or
           other proprietary data."
      2.   Mark each sheet       or Data to be restricted with the following legend:
           "Confidential: Use or disclosure of data contained on this sheet is subject to
           the restriction on the title page of this RFP."
      3.   Provide a CD-ROM with a redacted copv of the entire Proposal or
           Submission as one .pdf format file for posting on the City's website.
           Respondent is responsible for properly and adequately redacting any
           Data which Respondent desires remain confidential. lf entire pages or
           sections are removed, they must be represented by a page indicating
           that the page or section has been redacted. Failure to provide a GD-
           ROM with a redacted copy may result in the posting of an un-redacted
           copy.
                                             "Confidential" ma         be         n
Proposal as non-responsive

All Proposals submitted to the City are subject to the Freedoln of lnformation Act. The City
will make the final determination as to whether information, even if marked "confidential,"
will be disclosed pursuant to a request under the Freedom of lnformation Act or valid
subpoena. Respondent agrees not to pursue any cause of action against the City with
regard to disclosure of information.

                                                                                                           7
                                                    RFP for lnformation Technology Assessment and Strategic Plan
                                                                                        Specification No 680721



V.      PREPARING PROPOSALS: REQUIRED INFORMATION

Each Proposal must contain all of the following documents and must conform to the following
requirements.

   A.   Format of Proposals

   Proposal hardcopy or¡ginal must be prepared on 8 y2" X 11" letter size paper (preferably
   recycled), printed double-sided, and bound on the long side. The City encourages us¡ng
   reusable, recycled, recyclable and chlorine free printed materials for bids, proposal, reports
   and other documents prepared in connection with this solicitation. Expensive papers and
   bindings are discouraged, as no materials will be returned.

   Sections should be separated by labeled tabs and organized in accordance with subject
   matter sequence as set forth in Section V.B. Each page of the Proposal must be
   numbered in a manner so as to be uniquely identified.

   Electronic versions of the original proposal shall be word-searchable and mirror images of
   the original hardcopy.

   B. Required     Gontents of Proposal

   Proposal content must be clear, concise and well organized. Respondent is strongly
  discouraged from including marketing or promotional materials not related specifically to
  the focus of this RFP. Respondents are advised to adhere to the submittal requirements of
  the RFP. Failure to comply with the instructions of this RFP may be cause for rejection of
  the non-compliant Proposal. Respondent must provide information in the appropriate areas
  throughout the RFP. By submitting a response to this RFP, you are acknowledging that if
  your Proposal is accepted by the City, your Proposal and related submittals may become
  part of the contract. While the City recognizes that Respondents provide costs in varying
  formats, compliance with the enclosed Compensation Schedule in Exhibit 2 is required to
  facilitate eq uitable comparisons.

  At a minimum, the Proposal must include the following items:

  1. Cover Letter
  Respondent must submit a cover letter signed by an authorized representative of the entity
  committing Respondent to provide the Services as described in this RFP in accordance
  with the terms and conditions of any contract awarded pursuant to the RFP process. The
  cover letter must:

        a)   lndicate the number of years the company/organization has been in business and
             provide   an   overview      of the  experience and background             the         of
             company/organization and its key personnel committed to this project.
        b)   ldentify the legal name of the company/organization, its headquarters address, its
             principal place of business, its legal form (i.e., corporation, joint venture, limited
             liability company or partnership, etc.), and the names of its principals or partners



                                                                                                            8
                                                 RFP for lnformation Technology Assessment and Strategic Plan
                                                                                     Specification No 680721


           and authority to do business in lllinois with the most recent documents filed wíth
           and obtained from the Secretary of State.
      c)   lndicate the name, telephone number(s) and e-mail address                    of the    princ¡pal
           contact for this proposal, oral presentation or negotiations.
      d)   lnclude statement of any objections or comments, to the City of Chicago's
           standard contract terms and conditions as stipulated in the Sample Professional
           Services Agreement in Exhibit 9 of this RFP.
      e) Acknowledge receipt     of Addendum issued by the City, if any.


2.   Executive Summary

Respondent must provide an executive summary which explains its understandíng of the
City's intent and objectives and how their Proposal would achieve those objectives. The
summary must discuss Respondent's strategy and methodology for successfully
implementing and managing the Project for the City of Chicago; capacity to perform, and
approach to project management, satisfying the scope of services in the RFP and any
additional factors for the City's consideration.

The summary should outline the Respondent's overall plan from the initial contract award
(or pre-award meetings) phase, to post-initial and on-going operations of contract; general
approach to project management and expected deliverables and reports.

3.   Professional Qualifications and Specialized Experience of Respondent and Team
     Members Committed to this Project

lf Respondent proposes that major portions of the work will be performed or provided by
different team members (e.9. joint venture paftners, suppliers, subcontractors, etc.),
Respondent must provide the required information as described below for each such team
member.

     a)    Company Profile lnformation (See Form in Exhibit 3)

          ldentify participants in Respondent's "Team." For example, if Respondent is a
          business entity that is comprised of more than one legal participant (e.g.,
          Respondent is a general partnership, joint venture, etc.), then Respondent must
          identify or cause to be identified all participants involved, their respective
          ownership percentages, and summarize the role, degree of involvement, and
          experience of each participant separately

          lf Respondent has a prime contractor/subcontractor relationship instead, this
          information regarding role, involvement and experience is also required for any
          subcontractor that is proposed to provide a significant portion of the work.

          Provide a chronological history of all mergers and/or acquisitions involving the
          Respondent team members, including all present and former subsidiaries or
          divisions and any material restructuring activities, if applicable. lnclude any such
          forthcoming actions, if such disclosure has already been made generally available
          to the public and is permitted by law.


                                                                                                         9
                                             RFP for lnformation Technology Assessment and Strategic Plan
                                                                                 Specification No ô80721


      lf Respondent ¡s a joint venture, attach a copy of the joint venture agreement
      signed by an authorized officer of each joint venture partner. Each partner
      must execute:

         (i)     Schedule B as shown in Exhibit 5, if joint venture includes City of Chicago
                 or Cook County certified MBEA/VBE firms(s), as applicable.
         (ii)    Separate Economic Disclosure Statement and Affidavit ("EDS') completed
                 by each partner and one in the name of the joint venture as shown in
                 Exhibit 6.
         (iii)   lnsurance certificate in the name of the joint venture business entity as
                 shown in Exhibit 7.

b) Company         References/Client Profile lnformation (See Form in Exhibit 4)

     Respondent must provide at least three (3) references preferably from a
     municipality or government agency related to a contract of similar scope and
     magnitude as described in this RFP. Experience will not be considered unless
     complete reference data is provided. At a minimum, the following information
     should be included for each client reference:

                 Client name, address, contact person name, telephone and email
                 address.
                 Description of Services provided similar to the Services outlined in Exhibit
                  1 of this RFP.
                 The date when the Service was implemented.
                 The location of the project.
                 Nature and extent of Respondent's involvement as the prime Contractor
                 (also indicate area of secondary responsibility, if applicable) ldentify
                 Services, if any, subcontracted, and to what other company.
                 Contract term (Start and End date, or indicate if currently providing
                 services)
                 ïhe total dollar value of the Contract.
     Describe the general scope provided by the Respondent in terms of the
     lnformation Technology Assessment and Strategic Plan delivered to any
     referenced municipalities or clients.

     Explain any differences, if any, from the requirements set forth in this RFP, or
     proposed in response to this RFP, compared to the deliverables provided to any
     referenced cities or clients.

     All client reference information must be supported and verified.    Reference
     contacts must be aware that they are being used and agreeable to City interview
     for follow-up.

     The City may solicit from previous clients, including the City of Chicago, or any
     available sources, relevant information concerning Respondent's record of past
     performance.

c)   Gapacity to Perform Gity Project


                                                                                                    10
                                                             RFP for lnformation Technology Assessment and Strategic Plan
                                                                                                 Specification No. 680721


                Describe how any uncompleted projects and/or contractual commitments to other
               clients will affect your ability to deliver services, capacity to perform within City's
               timeline and affect dedicated resources comm¡tted to the City's Project.
               Respondent must provide a summary of current and future projects and
               commitments and include projected completion dates. ldentify what percentage of
               the services will be performed utilizing your own workforce, equipment and
               facilities. What percentage of the work will be subcontracted?

      d)       Business License/Authority to do Business in lllinois

               Respondent must provide copies of appropriate licenses or certifications required
               of any índividual or entity performing the Services described in this RFP in the City
               of Chicago, County of Cook and State of lllinois, for itself, its partners and its
               subcontractors, including evidence that Respondent is authorized by the Secretary
               of State to do business in the State of lllinois.

               lf Respondent is not currently "doing business" in lllinois at the time of submission,
               it is not required to show corporate good standing in lllinois with the proposal;
           Respondent should so indicate, and provide evidence of good standing for its state
           of organization, and primary state of operation, if different. corporate good
           standing in lllinois will be required for award of any contract. Provide copies with
           the Proposal submission.

           These requirements will vary depending upon the circumstances of each
           Respondent. See the Department of Business Affairs and Consumer Protection
           (BACP) website for additional information: www.cityofchicaqo.orq/businessaffairs.

           lf required by law, Respondents are required to have an lllinois Business License.
           See the State of lllinois, Department of Business Services website for additional
           inform atio n : ( http://www. cvberd rive no is. com0.
                                                      iIIi




           Additionally, visit the State         of lllinois'     Division    of   Professional Regulation for
           information regarding             the State of lllinois'                Professional Certifications:
           http://www. idf pr. com/D   P   R/.

4.   Professional Qualifications, Specialized Experience and Local Availability of Key
     Personnelwho will be dedicated to the Services described in this RFP.

Respondent must provide a summary of individuals who will be dedicated to the Services
described in this RFP. For each key person identified, Respondent must provide the
following information:

a)     Summary of the key personnel who will be dedicated to the Services as proposed
       and consistent with Staffing Plan per Section V.8.6 b.
b)     Key personnel areas of expertise and areas for prime responsibility for various tasks
       or aspects of the Services.
c)     Resumes or corporate personnel profiles with past experience for each of the key
       personnel, including a description of their roles and responsibilities on recent
       projects of similar type, scope, and magnitude relating to the Scope of Services as
       described in this RFP. Respondent must provide the following information:


                                                                                                                    1.1
                                                 RFP for lnformation Technology Assessment and Strategic Plan
                                                                                     Specification No. 680721


       (i)   Title and reporting responsibility.
       (ii)  Proposed role in this Project, including the functions and tasks for which they
             will have prime responsibility (also indicate areas of secondary responsibility, if
             appropriate)
       (iii) Pertinent areas of expedise and past exper¡ence
       (iv) Base location (localfacility, as applicable)
       (v) Resumes or corporate personnel prof¡les which describe their overall
             experience and expertise.

For each proposed key personnel, describe previous related experience and provide
references including: name, address, and telephone number of contact person, and brief
description of work history. The City reserves the right to conduct background checks on
any personnel within the scope of this engagement.

ln addition to resumes, Respondent must provide a detailed description of the roles and
responsibilities by job titles (service staff, supervisors, executive managers, etc.). Add any
other types of staff/personnel whom the Respondent is proposing.

5.   lmplementation / Management Plan and Proposed Solution

Respondent must provide          a  comprehensive and detailed lnformation Technology
Assessment and Strategic Plan which addresses requirements as outlined in Exhibit 1,
Scope of Services of this RFP. The plan must demonstrate Respondent's capacity to
successfully implement and manage the Services and ability to comply with the scope of
service and requirements as described in this RFP. The management plan must address,
but not be limited to, the following areas:


       a)     Approach to lmplementing Services

              Describe your policies and procedures for implementing projects, quality
              control/checks, project management, response time, project support &
              reporting/recommendation services, including your approach to overcoming
              obstacles, if any, and troubleshooting to resolve problems.

             The Respondent's proposed solution and the responses to the Requirements
             and lnterrogatives must address the following:

                 .   Degree to which Respondent's proposed approach meets the City's
                     business and technical requirements.
                 .   Added value of any particular component(s) of the proposed approach.
                 o   lmpact of the proposed approach on the operations of the user
                     departments, and the demonstrated ability to enhance operational
                     efficiency and effectiveness.

       b) Organization      Ghart

             Submit an organization chart which clearly illustrates the team structure
             comprising all firms (oint venture partners, if any, subcontractors); their
            relationship in terms of proposed Services; and key personnel involved and the
            following information   :




                                                                                                        72
                                                    RFP for lnformation Technology Assessment and Strategic Plan
                                                                                        Specification No. 680721



                  (i)   Respondent should provide an otganization chart which identifies not
                        only the proposed organizational structure, but also key personnel by
                        name and title. Staffing levels of each organizational unit should be
                        estimated. The specific role of each of the firms/organizations in a team
                        or joint venture for each tasl</work activity must be described.
                  (ii) Respondent must describe the specific role of each of the firms in                       a
                        team or joint venture for each tasl</work activity.
                  (iii) Respondent should provide an organization chart identifying and
                        showing the relationships between the Respondent and subcontractors.
                        The generic titles and responsibilities of key personnel to be assigned to
                        this Project by the Respondent and by any subcontractor must be
                        identified.

6.   Dedicated Resources

       a)   Facilities, Equipment, and Personnel

            Describe facilities, equipment, support personnel, communication technologies,
            and other resources available for implementing the proposed Services.

       b) Staffing Plan
            Provide an assessment of staffing needs for each major activity area by job title
            and function. Respondent should identify each primary team member working on
            staff with Respondent, as well as those working in a subcontracting capacity.
            Provide an assessment of staffing needs for each major activity area by job title
            and function. The assessment should include full-time equivalents for professional
            staff and supervisors committed to the City of Chicago project including team
            structure, numbers and team management plans to achieve requirements for
            transition, implementation and services.

            Submit resumes for key personnel that will be committed to this engagement.
            Correlate team members to the tasks they will be performing during
            implementation/transition and on-going operations. For each proposed key
            personnel, describe previous related experience and provide references including:
            name, address, and telephone number of contact person, and brief description of
            work history. The City reserves the right to conduct background checks on any
            personnel within the scope of this engagement.


7.   Schedule of Compensation / Gost Proposal

The Respondent must provide pricing in the format and content as outlined in Exhibit 2 in
order for the Respondent's Proposal to be considered responsive to this section.
Proposals that fail to include cost proposal information in Exhibit 2 will be rejected as
incomplete and deemed non-responsive.

All costs must, at a minimum, be provided as requested in Exhibit 2. For purposes of
comparing costs among Respondents, Respondent must not deviate from the format

                                                                                                           13
                                              RFP for lnformation Technology Assessment and Strategic Plan
                                                                                  Specification No. 680721


 outlined in Exhibit 2. The City reserves the right to negotiate a final price, terms, and
 conditions with Selected Respondent.

 The City is requesting detailed information regarding the compensation for lnformation
 Technology Assessment and Strategic Plan. All costs should be detailed for each year of
 the contract. (1 year, plus the 2 one-yèar extension options)

 All costs must be fixed and in writing. Costs must reflect all discounts and cost reductions.
 The City of Chicago anticipates awarding a contract under this RFP for a firm, fixed price
 for Services. Respondents must provide a detailed cost breakdown of all fee rates, costs,
 and expenses computed in the firm, fixed price to be charged to the City under
 Respondent's proposal.

 lf Respondent would like the City to apply, in evaluating Respondent's pr¡cing, the (1)
 Preference for Chicago-based businesses, (2) lncentive for Alternatively Powered
Vehicles, (3) lncentive for Veteran-Owned Small Local Business Enterprises and Eligible
Joint Ventures, or (4) BEPD Commitment, Respondent must submit the applicable
affidavit(s) with its proposal. A description of these preferences and affidavits can be found
in Eihibit 10, Local and Other Preferences: Adjustments to the Cost Proposal and
Affidavits.

8.   Minority and Women Business Enterprises Commitment

Respondent must complete and submit the forms that are attached to this RFP in Exhibit 5
to evidence Respondent's proposed MBEA/I/BE participation in some aspect of the
contract. For purposes of your response to this RFP, the minimum Minority Business
Enterprise (MBE) direct participation goal is 25.0% and the minimum Women Business
Enterprise (WBE) direct participation goal is 5.0% of the total contract value.

Respondent must submit a completed Schedule D-1 and obtain a separate Schedule C-1
completed and signed by each proposed MBE and WBE firm describing the Services to be
provided. With each Schedule C-1 form, Respondent should submit a current Letter of
Certification issued by the City of Chicago or Cook County. The proposed MBE or WBE
firm must be certified by the City of Chicago at the time of Proposal submission. The City
reserves the right to require Respondents to replace any proposed MBEA/VBE that is not
certified with the City of Chicago or Cook County.

Further, the percentage direct participation for each MBE or WBE firm on the individual
Schedule C-1s should match the percentages for each MBE or WBE firm listed on the
Schedule D-1. All schedules submitted must be original signature. Failure to submit these
documents, or incomplete documents, may result in Respondent being declared non-
responsive.

ln order to determine the best way in which to achieve and document MBEAffBE
participation, Respondent must refer to the Special Conditions Regarding Minority
Business Enterprise Commitment and Women Business Enterprise Commitment attached
to this RFP as Exhibit 5. To locate MBE^/VBE firms who are currently certified with the City
of Chicago in various areas of specialty, you can search the City's MBEA/úBE Directory
Database on the City's website : www. cityofch icaoo. orq/Procurement.



                                                                                                     1,4
                                                RFP for lnformation Technology Assessment and Strategic Plan
                                                                                    Specification No. 680721


    9.    Financial Statements

    Respondent must provide a copy of its audited financial statements for the last 3 years.
    Respondents that are comprised of more than one entity must include financial statements
    for each entity. The City will accept a complete set of financial statements on CD-ROM or
    USB drive instead of multiple copies, if voluminous for the period requested, but will not
    accept a web link. Respondents are required to provide required financial statements in
    sufficient detail for the City to assess its financial condition as part of their proposal
    submission. The City reserves the right to accept or reject any financial documentation
    other than the financial statements requested by this section.

    lf Respondent is unable to provide audited financial statements, state the reasons in your
    Proposal response and provide financial documentation in sufficient detail to enable the
    City to assess the financial condition of your company.

    Sufficient alternate documentation would be un-audited financial statements from those
    Respondents not required to have their financial statements audited. At a minimum, the
    statements need to be the balance sheets and income statements (or equivalent) for the
    requested three years. Assets/liabilities and income/ expenses must be presented in
    adequate detail for the City to assess the financial condition of the Respondent.


10. Economic Disclosure Statement and Affidavit ("EDS") and Attachment A: Online
    EDS Acknowledgement.

Respondent shall complete an Economic Disclosure Statement and Affidavit and
Attachment A: Online EDS Acknowledgement. See Online City of Chicago EDS
lnstructions and Attachment A: Online EDS Acknowledgement, in Exhibit 6. lf Respondent
is a business entity other than a corporation, then each member, partner, etc., of
Respondent must complete an EDS, as applicable, per the instructions on the EDS form.
ln addition, any entity that has an interest in Respondent or in one or more of its members,
partners, etc., and is required pursuant to the Municipal Purchasing Act for Cities of
500,000 or More Population (65 ILCS 5/8-10-8.5) or Chapter 2-154 of the Municipal Code
of Chicago to provide a disclosure must submit a completed and executed EDS as an
"entity holding an interest in an Applicant" as described in the EDS. All affidavits must be
notarized. Upon completion of Online EDS, Respondent shall submit a copy of 2
documents with their Proposal: l) Gertificate of Filing printed from system and 2)
hardcopy of the executed Attachment A, Online EDS Acknowledgement form .

The Respondent submitting as the prime must submit the above referenced                             EDS
documents with its Proposal. Subcontractors may be asked, at the City's discretion, to
provide an EDS during the evaluation process.

I   l.   Legal Actions

Respondent must provide a listing and a brief description of all material legal actions,
together with any fines and penalties, for the past 5 years in which (i) Respondent or any
division, subsidiary or parent entity of Respondent, or (ii) any member, partner, etc., of
Respondent if Respondent is a business entity other than a corporation, has been:

         a)    A debtor in bankruptcy; or

                                                                                                       15
                                                     RFP for lnfo¡mation Technology Assessment and Strategic Plan
                                                                                         Specification No. 680721


         b)     A  plaintiff or defendant in a legal action for deficient performance under a
                contract or violation of a statute or related to service reliability; or
         c)     A respondent in an adm¡nistrative action for deficient performance on a project
                or in violation of a statute or related to service reliability; or
         d)     A defendant in any criminal action; or
         e)     A named insured of an insurance policy for which the insured has paid a claim
                related to deficient performance under a contract or in violation of a statute or
                related to service reliability; or
        Ð       A principal of a bond for which a surety has provided contract performance or
                compensation to an obligee of the bond due to deficient performance under a
                contract or in violation if a statute or related to service reliability; or
        s)      A defendant or respondent in a governmental inquiry or action regarding
                accuracy of preparation of financial statements or disclosure documents.

    The City reserves the right to request similar legal action information from Respondent's
    team members during the evaluation process.

    12. lnsurance

    Respondent should include a statement that they can comply with the City's insurance
    requirements. Prior to contract award, the Selected Respondent will be required to submit
    evidence of insurance in the amounts specified in the attached Exhibit 7.

      13. Disclosure of Conflicts of lnterest

   The City expects that the Respondent will not have any conflicts of interests (including, but
   not limited to, any conflicts based on Respondent's participation in other City contracts).
   Therefore, Respondent should include in its Proposal a description of any actual or
   potential conflicts of interest.


VI.     EVALUATING PROPOSALS

A.      Evaluation Process

An Evaluation Committee, which will include the representatives from the Department of
lnnovation and Technology, the Department of Procurement Services and may include
representatives of other departments of the City ("Evaluation Committee" or "EC") will review
and evaluate the Proposals, as described below.

ln evaluating Proposals, the EC will first consider the completeness and responsiveness of the
Respondent's Proposal. The Proposal evaluation process is organized into three phases:

        Phasel-          PreliminaryProposalAssessment
        Phase ll -       Proposal Evaluation
        Phase lll -      Site Visits and/or Oral Presentations (if necessary)

Phase   l- Preliminary   Proposal Assessment

Phase I will involve an assessment of the Respondent's compliance with and adherence to all
submittal requirements requested in Section V. B, Required Content of the Proposal.

                                                                                                            I6
                                                    RFP for lnformation Technology Assessment and Strategic Plan
                                                                                        Specification No. 680721


Proposals which are incomplete and missing key components necessary to fully evaluate the
Proposal may, at the discretion of the EC, be rejected from further consideration due to "non-
responsiveness" and rated Non-Respons¡ve. Proposals providing responses to all sections will
be eligible for detailed analysis in Phase ll, Proposal Evaluation.

Phase ll - Proposal Evaluation

ln Phase ll, the EC will evaluate the extent to which a Respondent's Proposal meets the
requirements set forth in the RFP. Phase ll will include a detailed analysis of the Respondent's
qualifications, experience, proposed implementation and management plan, cost proposal, and
otherfactors based on the evaluation criteria outlined in Section Vl. B, Evaluation Criteria.

As part of the evaluation process, the EC will review the information required by Section V, for
each Proposal received. The EC may also review other information gained by checking
references and by investigating the Respondent's financial condition.

The City reserves the right, after adveftisement of the RFP, to refine the Scope of Services,
with appropriate notice. Further, if, upon receipt of Proposals, the City wishes to make
refinements to the Scope of Services, it may, depending upon the circumstances, provide the
revision to all Respondents and invite revised proposals from the Respondents based upon the
revised Scope of Services.

The City reserves the right to seek clarification of any information that is submitted by any
Respondent in any portion of its Proposal or to request additional information at any time
during the evaluation process. Any material misrepresentation made by a Respondent may
void the Proposal and eliminate the Respondent from further consideration.

The City reserves the right to enlist independent consulting services to assist with the
evaluation of all or any portion of the Proposal responses as it deems necessary.

B.        Evaluation Griteria

ln Phase ll, the Evaluation Committee will review the Respondent's Proposal to determine
overall responsiveness and completeness of the Proposal with respect to the components
outlined in the RFP using the following criteria (not necessarily listed in order of importance) as
applicable:

     1.   Professional and Technical Gompetence

          a) Ability to provide the Services described   in the RFP, including capacity to perform
               the Scope of Services described in Exhibit 1 of this RFP.

          b)   Professional Qualifications and Specialized Experience of Respondent and its
               Team on projects of similar scope and magnitude (e.9., specifically with respect to
               large organizations, and government agencies).

          c)   Professional Qualifications and Specialized Experience of Respondent's Key
               Personnel (and Team Members) and LocalAvailability of Key Personnel committed
               to the City of Chicago.



                                                                                                            17
                                                RFP for lnformation Technology Assessment and Strategic Plan
                                                                                    Specifícation No 680721


      d)                /
           References Past and Current Performance of the Respondent (and Team
           Members) on other contracts in terms of quality of services, operating within budget
           and compliance with performance schedules. The Committee may solicit from
           current and/or previous clients including the City of Chicago, other government
           agencies, or any available sources, relevant information concern¡ng the
           Respondent's record of performance.

2. Quality, Gomprehensiveness and Adequacy of the proposed                          lmplementation /
      Management Plan and Proposed Solution:

     ïhe EC will consider the quality, comprehensiveness and adequacy of the proposed
     plan for implementing and managing the lnformation Technology Assessment and
     Strategic Plan including the staffing plan, local availability and commitment of
     personnel who will manage and oversee the City of Chicago account.

     The Evaluation Committee will review each Proposal for the              Respondent's
     understanding of the objectives of the Services and how these objectives may be best
     accomplished. Each Respondent will be evaluated on their overall strategy,
     methodology and approach to meeting the City's service level needs.

     The EC will consider the Respondent's proposed solution and the responses to the
     Requirements and lnterrogatives including any proposed exceptions. The EC will
     consider the following   :




           .   Degree to which Respondent's proposed approach meets the City's business
               and technical requirements.
           .   Added value of any particular component(s) of the proposed approach.
           .   lmpact of the proposed approach on the operations of the user departments,
               and the demonstrated ability      to  enhance operational efficiency and
               effectiveness.

3.   Cost Proposal

     The City will consider completeness and adequacy of cost as per the Cost Proposal,
     Exhibit 2. ln evaluating the reasonableness of proposed costs, the City may apply: (1)
     Preference for Chicago-based businesses, (2) lncentive for Alternatively Powered
     Vehicles, (3) lncentive for Veteran-Owned Small Local Business Enterprises and
     Eligible Joint Ventures, or (4) BEPD Commitment as applicable.

4.   MBE/WBE Gompliance Plan

     The EC will evaluate the level, relevancy, and quality of direct participation       by
     MBEA/VBE firms certified by the City of Chicago or Cook County. lt should be noted that
     non-responsiveness to this requirement may be cause for the prospective Respondent
     to be disqualified.

5.   Legal Actions

     The EC will consider any legal actions, if any, against Respondent and any division,
     subsidiary or parent company of Respondent, or against any member, partner, etc., of
     Respondent if Respondent is a business entity other than a corporation.

                                                                                                       18
                                                  RFP for lnformation Technology Assessment and Strategic Plan
                                                                                      Specification No. 68072'1



    6.   Financial Stability

         The EC will consider the financial condition of Respondent. Respondent must be
         financially stable to ensure performance over the duration of the contract.

    7.   Compliance w¡th Laws, Ordinances, and Statutes

         The EC will consider Respondent's compliance with all laws, ordinances, and statutes
         governing the contract. See Online City of Chicago EDS lnstructions and Attachment
         A, Online EDS Acknowledgement form in Exhibit 6.

    8.   Degree to which the Respondent accepts the City's Terms and Conditions

         Respondent must indicate the degree to which it accepts the City's terms and
         conditions, including in the Scope of Services and in the City's Sample Professional
         Services Agreement in Exhibit 9. A Respondent that takes material objections to the
         City's terms and conditions may be found to be non-responsive and its Proposal may
         be rejected.

    9.   Gonflict of lnterest

         The EC will consider any information regarding Respondent, including information
         contained in Respondent's Proposal, that may indicate any conflicts (or potential
         conflicts) of interest which might compromise Respondent's ability to satisfactorily
         perform the proposed Services or undermine the integrity of the competitive
         procurement process. lf any Respondent has provided any services for the City in
         researching, consulting, advising, drafting, or reviewing of this RFP or any services
         related to this RFP, such Respondent may be disqualified from further consideration.


VII.     SELECTION PROCESS

After the Evaluation Committee ("EC") completes its review of Proposals in Phase ll, it may
submit to the DolT Commissioner and Chief Procurement Officer a recommended short list of
Respondents (Phase lll), or the EC may forego Phase lll and submit a recommendation to
select one Respondent, or a recommendation to reject any or all Proposals.

Phase lll- Site Visit and/or Oral Presentations

lf the EC submits a short list of Respondents for further review, then, in the sole discretion of
the DolT Commissioner and Chief Procurement Officer, those short-listed Respondents may
be subject to a site visit, and/or be invited to appear before the Evaluation Committee for an
oral presentation to clarify in more detail information what was submitted in Respondent's
Proposal; and/or to ask Respondent to respond to additional questions.

Following oral presentations, the Evaluation Committee will make a final evaluation of the
Respondents and submit its recommendation                to
                                                       the DolT Commissioner. Such
recommendation may be to enter into negotiations with only one Respondent or may be to
enter into negotiations with more than one Respondent.


                                                                                                          19
                                                   RFP for lnformation Technology Assessment and Strategic Plan
                                                                                       Specification No 680721


 Upon receipt of the EC's recommendation, the DolT Commissioner will submit a decision
 (concurrence or rejection of the EC's recommendation) to the Chief Procurement Officer. The
 Chief Procurement Officer shall then consider the DolT Commissioner's recommendation and
 exercise her authority to either not¡fy the Respondent(s) to enter into contract negotiations or
 reject the recommendation and offer alternate options.

 The City will require the selected Respondent(s) to participate in contract negotiations. ln
 order to award a contract that represents the best value to the City, as determined by the DolT
 Commissioner and the Chief Procurement Officer, the City reserves the right to enter into
 concurrent competitive price negotiations with one or more qualified Respondent(s). The
 City's requirement that a selected Respondent negotiate is not a commitment by the City to
 award a contract.

 The City reserves the right to terminate this RFP solicitation at any stage if the Chief
 Procurement Officer determines this action to be in the City's best interest. The receipt of
 Proposals or other documents will in no way obligate the City of Chicago to enter into any
 contract of any kind with any party.


VIII.   ADDITIONAL DETAILS OF THE RFP PROCESS

    A. Addenda
        lf it becomes necessary to revise or expand upon any part of this RFP, an addendum
        will be sent (electronically or by mail) to all of the prospective Respondents listed on the
        "Take Out Sheet" prior to the Proposal due date. A copy of addenda associated with
        this RFP specification number will also be posted on the City of Chicago Department pf
        Procurement Services' website and may be downloaded in lieu of being sent the
        addendum. Prospective Respondents are listed on the Take Out Sheet when they pick-
        up a copy of the RFP package from the Bid & Bond Room and leave a business card,
        e-mail BidandBond@cityofchicago.org or call in to the Bid & Bond Room to register
        their company as having downloaded a copy of the RFP prior to the Proposal due date.
        Each addendum is incorporated as part of the RFP documents, and the prospective
        Respondent should acknowledge receipt.

        Respondents are solely responsible        for acquiring the necessary information                  or
        materials from the Bid and Bond room.

        Copies of the take-out list, and any addenda, are available from the Department of
        Procurement Services Bid & Bond Room 103, City Hall, 121 North LaSalle Street,
        Monday-Friday, 8:30 a.m. - 4:30 p.m.; 312-744-9773; and via the lnternet at the
        Department of Procurement Services website: www.citvofchicaoo.orq/Procurement

        An addendum may include, but will not be limited to, the following:

        1.   Responses to questions and requests for clarification sent to the Department of
             Procurement Services; or

        2.   Responses to questions and requests for clarification raised at the Pre-Proposal
             Conference; or


                                                                                                          20
                                             RFP for lnformation Technology Assessment and Strategic Plan
                                                                                 Specification No 680721


   3.   Responses to questions and requests for clarification which were sent in by the
        deadline for submission of questions; all in accordance with the provisions of
        Section lVA.1 herein.

B. City's Rights to Reject Proposals
   The City of Chicago, acting through its Chief Procurement Officer, reserves the right to
   reject any and all Proposals that do not conform to the requirements set forth in this
   RFP; or that do not contain at least the information required by this RFP. lf no
   Respondent is selected through this RFP process, then the Chief Procurement Officer
   may utilize any other procurement method available under the Municipal Purchasing
   Act and the Municipal Code of Chicago, to obtain the Services described in this RFP or
   as may othenruise be so required.

C. No Liability for Cosfs
   The City is not responsible for costs or damages incurred by Respondents, member(s),
   partners, subcontractors, or other interested parties in connection with the RFP
   process, including but not limited to costs associated with preparing the Proposal
   and/or padicipating in any conferences, site visits, demonstrations, oral presentations
   or negotiations.

D. Prohibition on Ce¡7ain Contributions.- Mayoral Executive Order               No. 2011-4

   No Contractor or any person or entity who directly or indirectly has an ownership or
   beneficial interest in Contractor of more than 7.5o/o ("Owners"), spouses and domestic
   partners of such Owners, Contractor's Subcontractors, any person or entity who
  directly or indirectly has an ownership or beneficial interest in any Subcontractor of
  more than 7.5% ("Sub-owners") and spouses and domestic partners of such Sub-
  owners (Contractor and all the other preceding classes of persons and entities are
  together, the "ldentified Parties"), shall make a contribution of any amount to the Mayor
  of the City of Chicago (the "Mayor") or to his political fundraising committee during (i)
  the bid or other solicitation process for this Contract or Other Contract, including while
  this Contract or Other Contract is executory, (ii) the term of this Contract or any Other
  Contract between City and Contractor, and/or (iii) any period in which an extension of
  this Contract or Other Contract with the City is being sought or negotiated.

  Contractor represents and warrants that since the date of public advertisement of the
  specification, request for qualifications, request for proposals or request for information
  (or any combination of those requests) or, if not competitively procured, from the date
  the City approached the Contractor or the date the Contractor approached the City, as,
  applicable, regarding the formulation of this Contract, no ldentified Parties have made a
  contribution of any amount to the Mayor or to his political fundraising committee.

  Contractor shall not: (a) coerce, compel or intimidate its employees to make a
  contribution of any amount to the Mayor or to the Mayor's political fundraising
  committee; (b) reimburse its employees for a contribution of any amount made to the
  Mayor or to the Mayor's political fundraising committee; or (c) bundle or solicit others to
  bundle contributions to the Mayor or to his political fundraising committee.



                                                                                                    2L
                                                 RFP for lnformation Technology Assessment and Strategic Plan
                                                                                     Specification No 68072'l


     The ldentified Parties must not engage in any conduct whatsoever designed to
     intentionally violate this provision or Mayoral Executive Order No. 201 1-4 or to entice,
     direct or solicit others to intentionally violate this provision or Mayoral Executive Order
     No. 2011-4.

     Violation of, non-compliance with, misrepresentation with respect to, or breach of any
     covenant or warranty under this provision or violation of Mayoral Executive Order No.
     2011-4 constitutes a breach and default under this Contract, and under any Other
     Contract for which no opportunity to cure will be granted. Such breach and default
     entitles the City to all remedies (including without limitation termination for default)
     under this Contract, under Other Contract, at law and in equity. This provision amends
     any Other Contract and supersedes any inconsistent provision contained therein.

     lf Contractor violates this provision or Mayoral Executive Order No. 2011-4 prior to
     award of the Contract resulting from this specification, the CPO may reject Contractor's
     bid.

     For purposes of this provision:

      "Other Contract" means any agreement entered into between the Contractor and the
     City that is (i) formed under the authority of MCC Ch.2-92; (ii) for the purchase, sale or
     lease of real or personal property; or (iii) for materials, supplies, equipment or services
     which are approved and/or authorized by the City Council.

     "Contribution" means     a "political contribution" as defined in MCC Ch. 2-156, as
     amended.

     "Political fundraising committee" means a "political fundraising committee" as defined in
     MCC Ch. 2-156, as amended.

E.   FalseSúafemenfs

     1.     1-21-010 False Statements

          Any person who knowingly makes a false statement of material fact to the city in
          violation of any statute, ordinance or regulation, or who knowingly falsifies any
          statement of material fact made in connection with an application, report, affidavit,
          oath, or attestation, including a statement of material fact made in connection with a
          bid, proposal, contract or economic disclosure statement or affidavit, is liable to the
          city for a civil penalty of not less than $500.00 and not more than 91,000.00, plus
          up to three times the amount of damages which the city sustains because of the
          person's violation of this section. A person who violates this section shall also be
          liable for the city's litigation and collection costs and attorney's fees.

          The penalties imposed by this section shall be in addition to any other penalty
          provided for in the municipal code. (Added Coun. J. 12-15-04, p. 39915, S 1)

     2.   1-21-020 Aiding and Abetting




                                                                                                        22
                                               RFP for lnformation Technology Assessment and Strategic Plan
                                                                                   Specification No 680721


          Any person who aids, abets, incites, compels or coerces the doing of a ny act
          prohibited by this chapter shall be liable to the city for the same penalties for the
          violation. (Added Coun. J.12-15-04, p. 39915, S 1)

     3.   1-21-030 Enforcement

          ln addition to any other means authorized by law, the corporation counsel may
          enforce this chapter by instituting an act¡on with the department of administrative
          hearings. (Added Coun. J.12-15-04, p. 39915, S 1)

F.   Title Vl Solicitation Notice

     The City in accordance with the provisions of Title Vl of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (78
     Stat. 252,42 U.S.C. SS 2000d to 2000d-4) and the Regulations, hereby notifies all
     Respondents that it will affirmatively ensure that any contract entered into pursuant to
     this advertisement, disadvantaged business enterprises will be afforded full and fair
     opportunity to submit bids in response to this invitation and will not be discriminated
     against on the grounds of race, color, or national origin in consideration for an award.




                                                                                                       23
                                                   RFP for lnformation Technology Assessment and Strategic Plan
                                                                                       Specification No. 680721


                                             EXHIBIT   I
                                      SCOPE OF SERVICES


This scope describes the approach requested to 1) briefly assess the current state of the City's
information technology resources, processes, networks, and systems; and 2) develop and draft
a strategic plan, or digital roadmap, that reduces risks, enables departments to be more
effective and efficient, and aligns the City's technology with the needs of residents, bus¡nesses
and visitors.

This project will require the Selected Respondent to work in cooperation with the CIO and the
Budget Director, identify and obtain input from key stakeholders and all Departments, and
understand the City's mission, vision and goals, and departmental business needs.

The Selected Respondent will develop 1) a project plan that identifies the tasks, milestones
and a timeline for completion of the Assessment and Strategic Plan,2) an Assessment that
presents a clear understanding of the current state of City technology, and opportunities for
improvements and 3) a Strategic Plan that identifies goals, timelines, projects, and success
metrics. These key deliverables are further defined below.

Broadly speaking, the City's goals include reducing risk and lowering operational costs.
Therefore, the City expects that any plan developed by the Selected Respondent pursuant to
this RFP solicitation should anticipate that the City will largely be reallocating existing
resources and should not rely on a significant allocation of new resources. Respondents are
encouraged to use human-centered design to support this assessment and planning process



1.       ASSESSMETVT

The Assessment will

     o   Evaluate current product offerings, lT processes and technology services delivered
         internally and externally across all 30 departments within the City of Chicago.
     o   Benchmark the City against other similar organizations, in the public and private sector,
         and in relation to lndustry Best Practices.
     .   Evaluate emerging technology opportunities, noting existing gaps, areas of potential
         risk, and opportunities for rationalization and optimization within the current method of
         development and delivery of technology.

The Assessment can be summarized into the following two primary sections: 1) Current state
benchmarking analysis 2) gap and future oppoftunity analysis, and should cover the following
areas:

1. Business Strategy: Document department specific goals and priorities by conducting
interviews with City department heads and other key staff to develop a prioritized departmental
needs matrix.

2. Application Portfolio: Review existing enterprise and departmental applications. Update
application inventory to provide an up-to-date assessment of existing offerings. ldentify
opportunities for consolidatioñ or emerging alternatives to current processes or applications.



                                                                                                           24
                                                     RFP for lnformation Technology Assessment and Strategic Plan
                                                                                         Specification No 680721


3. lT Risk Assessment: ldentify potential vulnerabilities that require immediate mitigation and
potential risks that could emerge overtime as technology advances.

4. Technical infrastructure: Prepare gap analysis on the ability of existing City hardware and
network infrastructure to support current needs and identify potential to move to cloud or
hosted services.

5. Cost Analysis: Assess all lT-related costs across the enterprise, not just within DolT to
identify potential areas for cost reduction; and, benchmark spending-across departments and
to external public and private organizations-to rationalize financial immediacy of
recommendations in Strategic Plan (detailed below).

6. Personnel and Organizational Structure: Given assessments detailed above, evaluate
existing staffing resources and organizational structure.

The Assessment should provide sufficient quantitative information to draw conclusions
regarding current operational and service options and the potential opportunity of future
changes. The Assessment will be reviewed by a project Steering Committee whose
membership will be defined at the beginning of the project, chaired by the CIO and the Budget
Director, to validate the consultant's findings, and facilitate discussions to agree upon key
recommendations that will serve as the foundation for the approximately three year lT strategic
plan, or digital roadmap. Following approval of the Assessment by the Steering Committee, the
consultant will write a strategic plan.

Selected Respondent must complete the Assessment within three months of the Contract
commencement date.



2.       STRATEGIC PLAN

The purpose of the strategic plan (or, digital roadmap or roadmap), is to lay out the path to
actualize the citywide lT strategy and vision, given the resources, opportunities and risks
identified in the assessment phase of the project through a set of prioritized recommendations.
The selected Respondent is expected to collaborate continuously with City leadership and staff
in the development of the plan, which will provide a framework for lT governance over
approximately the next three years for planning, procuring, implementing and managing
current and future investments and resources.

Recommendations should

     . Enable departments to be proactive, responsive, and more effective and efficient
     o Enhance the delivery of internal and external technology to end users
     . Address the input, needs, challenges, and priorities of residents, businesses and
       visitors
     . Be based on quantitative and qualitative findings from the Assessment
     o Be citywide in nature, not solely aimed at DolT
     . Be developed with current budgetary considerations in mind
Recommendations should include

     a   Specific cost-saving technologies, efficiencies, and initiatives to support current and
         future citywide operations and departmental needs.

                                                                                                            25
                                                      RFP for lnformation Technology Assessment and Strategic Plan
                                                                                          Specification No. 680721


         a   Specific dollar impact of potential lT investments or technological improvements in the
             short- and long- term and from a cost and use perspective
         a   Detailed timelines including key milestones, estimated time to accomplish the proposed
             change and any improvements that depend on the successfulcompletion of another
         a   Key performance metrics and methods with which to measure progress for each
             recommendation at various stages
         a   Specific staffing resources, including positions, roles, skills and department structure
             required to supporl information management and the lT strategy

The roadmap should prioritize initiatives, phases, and project timelines in a series of logical
steps achievable over a flexible period of time as well as contingencies for adjustment of time
periods and flexibility regarding future information technology direction. The plan should
include an executive summary of findings and recommendations and quantifiable justifications
for the areas identified in the Scope of Work.

Selected Respondent must provide the strategic plan to the City within six months of the
completion of the Assessment.


3.           OTHER DELIVERABLES

ln addition to the Assessment and the Strategic Plan, the Selected Respondent must provide
the deliverables noted below. ln responding, please identify any objectives, tasks, or areas that
may be necessary to complete the scope of work, even if not specifically noted below.

     3.1 Source Documentation

ln addition to the Assessment and the Strategic Plan, the Selected Respondent must provide
all raw materials or Source Documentation used to draft the core deliverables of this
engagement. This includes, but is not limited to, notes from interviews, survey results, product
or service quotes, etc.

     3.2 Engagement Project Management Deliverables

The Selected Respondent must work with the City to develop and maintain the following
Project Management Deliverables related to this project during the course of the engagement.

     .       Project Management Plan
     .       Project Schedule
     .       Project lssues and Risk Logs
     .       Weekly Project Status Reports

Selected Respondent must provide these deliverables within one month of the Contract
commencement date."




                                                                                                              26
                                       RFP for lnformation Technology Assessment and Strategic Plan
                                                                           Specification No. 680721




      Exhibit 2 - Cost Proposal

      Assessment

                                                          Estimated Project Compensation
Resource Name             Role/Title   Hourly Rate
                                                          Hours             Amount




     Strategic Plan

iResource Name                                                      d Project iCom pensation
                          Role/Title   Hourly
                                                                                   unt




     Other Deliverables

                                                                       Project          pensation
    urce Name             Role/Title   Hourly Rate
                                                         Hours                        o unt




                                                                                              27
                                                             RFP for lnformation Technology Assessment and Strategic Plan
                                                                                                 Specification No. 680721




                                                       EXHIBIT 3

                                COMPANY PROFILE INFORMATION

 Submit a completed company prof¡le information sheet for prime, each jo¡nt venture partner and
 subcontractor(s), as appl¡cable.

 (1)     Legal Name of Firm

 (2)    Doing Business under Other Company Name?

        lf yes, Name of Company:

(3) HeadquartersAddress:
(4) City, State, Zip Code
(5) Web Site Address
(6) Proposed Role: I Prime                    t   I Subcontractor/Subconsultant      I   I Joint Venture Partner

                           Li Supplier   or   !Other:
(7)     Number of Years in Business:



(8)     Total Number of Employees


(9)     TotalAnnual Revenues separated by last 3 full fiscal years:


(10) Major Products and/or Services Offered:



(1   1) Other Products and/or Services


(12) Briefly describe your firm's strategy for lnformation Technology Assessment and Strategic Plan for
        clients:




(13) Briefly describe your firm's experience with lnformation Technology Assessment and Strategic
       Plan for clients:




                                                                                                                    28
                                                       RFP for lnformation Technology Assessment and Strategic Plan
                                                                                           Specification No. 680721




                                                EXHIBIT 4

                  coMPANY REFERENCES/CU ENT pROFt LE I N FORMATTON
Submit a completed client prof¡le information sheet for each company reference. Provide a
m¡n¡mum of 3 references.

(1) Client Name
(2) Address:
(3) City, State, Zip Code
(4) Project Manager:
(5) Telephone Number:
(6) E-mail:
(7) Number of Employees in Client Organization:
(8) Project Scope of Services/Goals


(9)   Contract Award Date:                                Completion Date:
(10) lnitial Contract Amount: $                           final Contract Amount: s
(11) Describe how the client's goals were met. Describe how the lnformation Technology Assessment
      and Strategic Plan were implemented. Attach additional pages, as necessary.




(12) Discuss significant obstacles to providing the required services and how those obstacles were
      overcome:




(13) ls the client still utilizing the lnformation Technology Assessment and Strategic Plan?




(1a) What was the cosUfinancing structure of the contract?




                                                                                                              29
                                                              RFP for lnformation Technology Assessment and Strategic Plan
                                                                                                  Specification No. 680721


                                                       EXHIBIT 5
                             M         BE SPECIAL CONDITIONS AND SCHEDULES


                                                                 CITY OF CHICAGO
                                              Depaftment of Procurement Serv¡ces
                                            Jamie L. Rhee, Chief Procurement Officer
                                                   121 North LaSalle Street, Room 806
                                                       Chicago, Illinois 60602-LZB4
                                                          Fax= 3I2-744-324L


                        MBE & WBE Special Conditions for Commodities or Services Contracts




1.   SPECIAT CONDITIONS REGARDING MINORITY BUSINESS ENTERPRISE                 COMMITMENT AND WOMEN
      BUSINESS ENTERPRISE COMMITMENT FOR COMMODITIES OR SERVICES


     L.t.     Policy and Terms

     It is the policy of the City of Chicago that Local Businesses certified as Minority Owned Business Enterprises
     (MBE)and Women Owned Business Enterprises (WBE) in accordance with Section 2-92-420 et seq. of the
     Municipal Code of Chicago and Regulations Governing Certification of Minority and Women-owned
     Businesses and all other Regulations promulgated underthe aforementioned sections of the Municipal Code,
     as well as MBEs and WBEs certified by Cook County, lllinois, will have full and fair opportunities to participate
     fully in the performance of this contract. Therefore, the Contractor will not discriminate against any person
     or business on the basis of race, color, sex, gender identity, age, religion, disability, national origin, ancestry,
     sexual orientation, marital status, parental status, military discharge status or source of income and will take
     affirmative action to ensure that women and minority businesses will have the maximum opportunity to
     compete for and perform subcontracts for supplies or services.

     Pursuant to Section 2-92-430 of the Municipal Code of Chicago, the Chief Procurement Officer has
     established a goal of awarding not less than 25% of the annual dollar value of all non-construction
     contracts to certified MBEs and 5% of the annual dollar value of all non-construction contracts to certified
     WBEs.

     Pursuant to Section 2-92-430 of the Municipal Code of Chicago, the Chief Procurement Officer has
     established a goal of awarding not less fhan25% of the annual dollar value of all non-construction contracts
     to certified MBEs and 5% of the annual dollar value of all non-construction contracts to certified WBES.
     Accordingly, the Contractor commits to make Good Faith Efforts to expend at least the following percentages
     of the total contract price (inclusive of any and all modifications and amendments), if awarded, for contract
     participation by MBEs and WBEs:
                       MBE  Percentage                  WBE Percentage

                            25.0%                                 s.0%

     This commitment is met by the Contractor's status as a MBE or WBE, or by a joint venture with one or more
     MBEs or WBEs as prime contractor (to the extent of the MBE or WBE participation in such joint venture), or
     by subcontracting a portion of the work to one or more MBEs or WBEs, or by the purchase of materials used
     in the performance of the contract from one or more MBEs or WBEs, or by the indirect participation of MBEs
     or WBEs in other aspects of the Contractor's business (but no dollar of such indirect MBE or WBE
     participation will be credited more than once against a Contractor's MBE or WBE commitment with respect
     to all government Contracts of such Contractor), or by any combination of the foregoing.


                                                                                                                      30
                                                            RFP for lnformation Technology Assessment and Strategic Plan
                                                                                                Specification No. 680721


 Note: MBE/WBE participation goals are separate and those businesses certified with the City of Chicago as
 both MBE and WBE may only be listed on a bidder's compliance plan as either a MBE or a WBE, but not both
 to demonstrate compliance with the Contract Specific Goals.
 As noted above, the Contractor may meet all or part of this commitment by contracting with MBEs or WBEs
 fortheprovisionofgoodsorservicesnotdirectlyrelatedtotheperformanceofthisContract. However,in
 determining the manner of MBE/WBE participation, the Contractor will first consider involvement of
 MBEs/WBEs as jointventure partners, subcontractors, and suppliers of goods and services directly related to
 theperformanceofthisContract. lnappropriatecases,theChief ProcurementOfficerwill requirethe
 Contractor to demonstrate the specific efforts undertaken by it to involve MBEs and WBEs directly in the
 performance of this Contract.

 The Contractor also may meet all or part of this commitment through credits received pursuant to Section 2-
 92-530 of the Municipal Code of Chicago for the voluntary use of MBEs or WBEs in private sector contracts.

 Pursuant Lo2-92-535, the prime contractor may apply be awarded an additional 0.333 percent credit, up to             a
 maximum of a total of 5 percent additional credit, for every L percent of the value of a contract self-
 performed by MBEs or WBEs, or combination thereof, that have entered into a mentor agreement with the
 contractor. This up to 5% may be applied to the Contract Specific Goals, or it may be in addition to the
 Contract Specific Goals.

 1.2.       Definitions
"Area of Spec¡alty" means the description of an MBE or WBE firm's business which has been determined by
the Chief Procurement Officer to be most reflective of the MBE or WBE firm's claimed specialty or expertise.
EachMBE/WBEletterofcertificationcontainsadescriptionofthefirm'sAreaofspecialty. Thisinformationis
also contained in the Directory (defined below), Credit toward this Contract's MBE and WBE participation
goals shall be limited to the participation of f¡rms performing within their Area of Specialty.

     NOTICE: The Cíty of Chicago does not moke ony representation concerning the obility of ony MBE/WBE to
     perform work within their Area of Specialty. lt is the responsibility of all controctors to determine the
     copobility and copacity of MBEs/WBEs to satisfoctorily perform the work proposed.

"8.E.P.D." means an entity certified as a Business enterprise owned or operated by people with disabilities        as
defined in MCC Section 2-92-586.
"Bid" means a bid, proposal, or submittal detailing a description of the services or work to be provided by the
contractor in response to a bid solicitation, request for proposal, request for qualification of task order request
(issued in accordance with the Master Consulting Agreement) that is issued by the City.

"Bidder" means any person or business entity that submits a bid, proposal, qualification or submittal that
                                                                                   joint ventures of such
seeks to enter into a contract with the City, and includes all partners, affiliates and
person or entity.

"Broker" means a person or entity that fills orders by purchasing or receiving supplies from a third party
supplier ratherthan out of its own existing inventory and provides no commercially useful function otherthan
acting as a conduit between his or her supplier and his or her customer.

"Chief Procurement Officer" or "CPO" means the chief procurement officer of the City of Chicago or his or her
designee.

"Commercially Useful Function" means responsibility for the execution of a distinct element of the work of
the contract, which is carried out by actually performing, managing, and supervising the work involved,
evidencing the responsibilities and risks of a business owner such as negotiating the terms of (sub)contracts,
taking on a financial risk commensurate with the contract or its subcontract, responsibility for acquiring the
appropriate lines of credit and/or loans, or fulfilling responsibilities as a joint venture partner as described in
the joint venture agreement.



                                                       31
                                                          RFP for lnformation Technology Assessment and Strategic Plan
                                                                                              Specification No. 680721


 "Contract Specific Goals" means the subcontracting goals for MBE and WBE participation established for         a
 particular contract.

 "Contractor" means any person or business ent¡ty that has entered into a contract with the City as described
 herein, and includes all partners, affiliates, and joint ventures of such person or entity.

 "Direct Participatíon" the value of payments made to MBE or WBE firms for work that is performed in their
 Area of Specialty directly related to the performance of the subject matter of the Contract will count as Direct
 Participation toward the Contract Specific Goals.

 "Directory" means the Directory of Certified "Minority Business Enterprises" and "Women        Business
 Enterprises" maintained and published by the City of Chicago. The Directory identifies firms that have been
 certified as MBEs and WBEs, and includes both the date of their last certification and the area of specialty in
 which they have been certified. Contractors are responsible for verifying the current certification status of all
 proposed MBE, and WBE firms.

 "Good Faith Efforts" means actions undertaken by a bidder or contractor to achieve a Contract Specific Goal
 that the CPO or his or her designee has determined, by their scope, intensity, and appropriateness to the
 objective, can reasonably be expected to fulfill the program's requirements.

 "lndirect Participation" refers to the value of payments made to MBE or WBE firms for work that is done in
 their Area of Specialty related to other aspects of the Contractor's business. (Note: no dollar of such indirect
 MBE or WBE participation shall be credited more than once against a contractor's MBE or WBE commitment
 with respect to all government contracts held by that contractor.)
"Joint venture" means an association of a MBE or WBE firm and one or more other firms to carry out a single,
for-profit business enterprise, for which each joint venture partner contributes property, capital, efforts, skills
 and knowledge, and in which the MBE or WBE is responsible for a distinct, clearly defined portion of the work
of the contract and whose share in the capital contribution, control, management, risks, and profits of the
joint venture are commensurate with its ownership interest.
"Mentor-Protégé Agreement" means an agreement between a prime and MBE or WBE subcontractor
pursuant to MCC 2-92-535, that is approved by the City of Chicago and complies with all requirements of MCC
2-92-535 and any rules and regulations promulgated by the Chief Procurement Officer.

"Minority Owned Business Enterprise" or "MBE" means a firm awarded certification as a minority owned and
controlled business in accordance with City Ordinances and Regulations as well as a firm awarded certification
as a minority owned and controlled business by Cook County, lllinois.

"Municipal Code of Chicago" or "MCC" means the Municipal Code of the City of Chicago.
"Supplier" or "Distributor" refers to a company that owns, operates, or maintains a store, warehouse or other
establishment in which materials, supplies, articles or equipment are bought, kept in stock and regularly sold
or leased to the public in the usual course of business. A regular distributor or supplier is a firm that owns,
operates, or maintains a store, warehouse, or other establishment in which the materials or supplies required
for performance of a contract are bought, kept in stock, and regularly sold to the public in the usual course of
business. To be a regular distributor the firm must engage in, as its principal business and in its own name, the
purchaseandsaleoftheproductsinquestion. Aregulardistributorinsuchbulkitemsassteel,cement,
gravel, stone, and petroleum products need not keep such products in stock if it owns or operates d¡stribution
equipment.

"Women Owned Business Enterprise" or "WBE" means a firm awarded certification as a women owned and
controlled business in accordance with City Ordinances and Regulations as well as a firm awarded certification
as a women owned business by Cook County, lllinois.

1.3.     Joint Ventures
The formation of joint ventures to provide MBEs and WBEs with capacity and experience at the prime
contracting level, and thereby meet Contract Specific Goals (in whole or in part) is encouraged. A joint



                                                     32
                                                         RFP for lnformation Technology Assessment and Strategic Plan
                                                                                             Specification No. 680721


venture may consist of any combination of MBEs, WBEs, and non-certified firms as long as one member is an
MBE or WBE.

       a    The joint venture may be eligible for credit towards the Contract Specific Goals only if:

            i.        The MBE or WBE joint venture partner's share in the capital contribution, control,
                      management, risks and profits of the joint venture is equal to its ownership interest;

            ii.       The MBE or WBE joint venture partner is responsible for a distinct, clearly defined
                      portion of the requirements of the contract for which it is at risk;
            ii¡.      Each   joint venture partner executes the bid to the City; and
            iv.       Thejoint venture partners have entered into a written agreement specifying the terms
                     and conditions of the relationship between the partners and their relationship and
                     responsibilities to the contract, and all such terms and conditions are in accordance with
                     the conditions set forth in ltems i, ii, and iii above in this Paragraph a.

   b.       The Chief Procurement Officer shall evaluate the proposed joint venture agreement, the
            Schedule B submitted on behalf of the proposed joint venture, and all related documents to
            determine whether these requirements have been satisfied. The Chief Procurement Officer shall
            alsoconsidertherecordofthejointventurepartnersonotherCityofChicagocontracts.            The
            decision of the Chief Procurement Officer regarding the eligibility of the joint venture for credit
            towards meeting the Contract Specific Goals, and the portion of those goals met by the joint
            venture, shall be final.

            Ihe joint venture may receive MBE or WBE credit for work performed by the MBE or WBE joint
            venture partner(s) equal to the value of work performed by the MBE or WBE with its own forces
            for a distinct, clearly defined portion of the work.
            Additionally, if employees of the joint venture entity itself (as opposed to employees of the MBE
            or WBE partner) perform the work, then the value of the work may be counted toward the
            Contract Specific Goals at a rate equal to the MBE orlWBE firm's percentage of participation in
           the joint venture as described in Schedule    B.

           The Chief Procurement Officer may also count the dollar value of work subcontracted to other
           MBEs and WBEs. Work performed by the forces of a non-certified joint venture partner shall not
           be counted toward the Contract Specific Goals.

   c       Schedule B: MBE/WBE Affidavit of Joint Venture

           Where the bidder's Compliance Plan includes the participation of any MBE or WBE as a joint
           venture partner, the bidder must submit with its bid a Schedule B and the proposed joint venture
           agreement. These documents must both clearly evidence that the MBE or WBE joint venture
           partner(s) will be responsible for a clearly defined port¡on of the work to be performed, and that
           the MBE's or WBE's responsibilities and risks are proportionate to its ownership percentage. The
           proposed joint venture agreement must include specific details related to:

           i.        The parties'contributions of capital, personnel, and equipment and share of the costs of
                     insurance and bonding;

           ii.       Work items to be performed by the MBE's or WBE's own forces and/or work to be
                     performed by employees of the newly formed joint venture entity;
           iii.      Work items to be performed under the supervision of the MBE or WBE joint venture
                     partner; and
           iv.      The MBE's or WBE's commitment of management, supervisory, and operative personnel
                    to the performance of the contract.



                                                    33
                                                         RFP for lnformation Technology Assessment and Strategic Plan
                                                                                             Specification No. 680721


NOTE: Vague,general descriptionsoftheresponsibilitiesoftheMBEorWBEjointventurepartnerdonot
provide any basis for awarding credit. For example, descriptions such as "participate in the budgeting
process," "assist with hiring," or "work with managers to improve customer service" do not identify distinct,
clearlydefinedportionsofthework. Rolesassignedshouldrequireactivitiesthatareperformedonaregular,
recurringbasisratherthanasneeded. Therolesmustalsobepertinenttothenatureofthebusinessfor
whichcreditisbeingsought. Forinstance,ifthescopeofworkrequiredbytheCityentailsthedeliveryof
goods or services to various sites in the City, stating that the MBE or WBE joint venture partner will be
responsible for the performance of all routine maintenance and all repairs required to the vehicles used to
deliver such goods or services is pertinent to the nature of the business for which credit is being sought.

L.4.     Counting MBE/WBE Participation Toward the Contract Specific Goals
Refer to this section when preparing the MBE/WBE compliance plan and completing Schedule D-1 for
guidance on what value of the participation by MBEs and WBEs will be counted toward the stated Contract
Specific Goals. The "Percent Amount of Participation" depends on whether and with whom a MBE or WBE
subcontracts out any portion of its work and other factors.

Firms that are certified as both MBE and WBE may only be listed on a bidder's compliance plan as either a
MBE or a WBE to demonstrate compliance with the Contract Specific Goals. For example, a firm that is
certified as both a MBE and a WBE may only be listed on the bidder's compliance plan under one of the
categories, but not both. Only Payments made to MBE and WBE firms that meet BOTH the Commercially
Useful Function and Area of Specialty requirements above will be counted toward the Contract Specific Goals.

    a.       Only expenditures to firms that perform a Commerciallv Useful Function as defined above mav
             count toward the Contract Specific Goals.

             i.       The CPO will determine whether a firm is performing a commercially useful function by
                      evaluating the amount of work subcontracted, whether the amount the firm is to be
                      paid under the contract is commensurate with the work it is actually performing and the
                      credit claimed for its performance of the work, industry practices, and other relevant
                      factors.

                      A MBE or WBE does not perform a commercially useful function if its participation is
                      only required to receive payments in order to obta¡n the appearance of MBE or WBE
                      participation. The CPO may examine similar commercial transactions, particularly those
                      in which MBEs or WBEs do not p¿rticipate, to determine whether non MBE and non
                      WBE firms perform the same function in the marketplace to make a determination.

             ilr      lndications that a subcontractor is not performing a commercially useful function
                      include, but are not limited to, labor shifting and equipment sharing or leasing
                      arrangements with the prime contractor or a first tier subcontractor.

   b.       Only the value of the dollars paid to the MBE or WBE firm for work that it               in its Area of
            Specialtv in which it is certified counts toward the Contract Specific Goals,

   c.
            performs the work itself : I00% of the value of wolk actually performed by the MBE's or WBE's
            own forces shall be counted toward the Contract Specific Goals, including the cost of supplies
            and materials purchased or equipment leased by the MBE or WBE from third parties or second
            tier subcontractors in order to perform its (sub)contract with its own forces (except supplies and
            equipment the MBE or WBE subcontractor purchases or leases from the prime contractor or its
            affiliate).0% of the value of work at the project site that a MBE or WBE subcontracts to a non-
            certified firm counts toward the Contract Specific Goals.
   d        lf thp MBE ôr WBE iç a man¡rfa¡trrror' 100% of expenditures to a MBE or WBE manufacturer for
            items needed for the Contract shall be counted toward the Contract Specific Goals. A
            manufacturer is a firm that operates or maintains a factory or establishment that produces on
            the premises the materials or supplies obtained by the bidder or contractor.


                                                    34
                                                            RFP for lnformation Technology Assessment and Strategic Plan
                                                                                                Specification No 680721


      e.       lf the MBE or WBE is a distributor or supplier : 6O% of expenditures for materials and supplies
               purchased from a MBE or WBE that is certified as a regular dealer or supplier shall be counted
               toward the Contract Specific Goals.
     f          lf the MBE or WBE is a broker:

               i.       Zero percent (O%) of expenditures paid to brokers will be counted toward the Contract
                        Specific Goals.

               ii.      As defined above, Brokers provide no commercially useful function.

     o
     Þ'        lf the MBE or WBE is a memher of the ioint venture contractor/bidder:

               i.       A joint venture may count the portion of the total dollar value of the contract equal to
                        the distinct, clearly defined portion of the work of the contract that the MBE or WBE
                        performs with its own forces toward the Contract Specific Goals; or



                        üit":iï::::li"iì:ii,';ü:ä;[x;:i:"?î:ii,'f                   J,:i:ii:lr,ïi'ff :i:
                        WBEfirm's percentage of part¡cipation in the joint venture as described in the Schedule
                        B.

               ¡ii.     A    joint venture may also count the dollar value of work subcontracted to other    MBEs
                        and WBEs.
     h.        lf the MBE or WBE subcontracts out anv of its work:

               i.       100% of the value of the work subcontracted to other MBEs or WBEs performing work
                        in its Area of Specialty may be counted toward the Contract Specific Goals.

               i¡.      0% of the value of work that a MBE or WBE subcontracts to a non-certified firm counts
                        toward the Contract Specific Goals (except as allowed by (c) above).
               iii.     The fees or commissions charged for providing a bona fide service, such as professional,
                        technical, consulting or managerial services or for providing bonds or insurance and
                        assistance in the procurement of essential personnel, facilities, equipment, materials or
                       supplies required for performance of the Contract, provided that the fee or commission
                       is determined by the Chief Procurement Officer to be reasonable and not excessive as
                       compared with fees customarily allowed for similar services.

              iv.      The fees charged for delivery of materials and supplies required on a job site (but not
                       the cost of the materials and supplies themselves) when the hauler, trucker, or delivery
                       service is not also the manufacturer of or a regular dealer in the materials and supplies,
                       provided that the fee is determined by the Chief Procurement Officer to be reasonable
                       and not excessive as compared with fees customarily allowed for similar services.

              v.       The fees or commissions charged for providing any bonds or insurance, but not the cost
                       of the premium itself, specifically required for the performance of the Contract,
                       provided that the fee or commission is determined by the Chief Procurement Officer to
                       be reasonable and not excessive as compared with fees customarily allowed for similar
                       services.

1.5.       Regulations Governing Reductions to or Waiver of MBE/WBE Goals
The following Regulations set forth the standards to be used in determining whether or not a reduction or
waiver of the MBE/WBE commitment goals of a particular contract is appropriate. lf a bidder determines that
it is unable to meet the MBE and/or WBE Contract-Specific Goals on a City of Chicago contract, a written
request for the reduction or waiver of the commitment must be included in the bid or proposal.

The written request for reduction or waiver from the commitment must be in the form of a signed petition for
gront of rclicf from thc MBE/WBE percentages submitted on the bidder's letterhead, and must denroustrate


                                                       35
                                                              RFP for lnformation Technology Assessment and Strategic Plan
                                                                                                  Specification No. 680721


                        as set forth in this document were taken to secure eligible Minority and Women
that all required efforts
Business Enterprises to meet the commitments. The Chief Procurement Officer or designee shall determine
whether the request for the reduction or waiver will be granted.
A bidder will be considered responsive to the terms and conditions of these Regulations if, at the time of bid, it
submits a waiver request and all supporting documentation that adequately addresses the conditions for
waiver of MBE/WBE goals, including proof of notification to assist agencies except:
    o    Bidders responding to Request for Proposals (RFPs) who have been identified as a short listed
         candidate and/or a prospective awardee will be given a designated time allowance, but no more than
         fourteen (14) calendar days to submit to the Department of Procurement Services complete
         documentation that adequately addresses the conditions for waiver described herein; and
    o    Bidders responding to Request for lnformation and or Qualifications (RFl/RFQs) deemed by the Chief
         Procurement Officer or authorized designee to be the most responsive and responsible shall submit
         documentation that adequately addresses the conditions for waiver described herein during
         negotiations.

Failure to submit documentation sufficient to support the waiver request will cause the bid/proposal to be
found non-responsive by the Chief Procurement Officer, and the bid/proposal will be rejected. ln such cases
the remedies to be taken by the Chief Procurement Officer, in his or her discretion, may include, but are not
limited to, forfeiture of bid deposit; negotiating with the next lowest bidder; or re-advertising the
bid/proposal. All bidders must submit all required documents at the time of bid opening to expedite the
contract award.
  1.5.1.     Direct   /   lndirect Participation
    Each of the following elements must be present in order to determine whether or not such a reduction or
    waiver is appropriate.

    a.       The bidder has documented the unsuccessful solicitation for either subcontractors or joint
             venture partners of at least 50%(or at least five when there are more than eleven certified firms
             in the commodity area) of the appropriate certified MBE/WBE firms to perform any direct or
             indirect work identified or related to the advertised bid/proposal. Documentation must iriclude
             but is not necessarily limited to:
                          t.       A detailed statement of efforts to identify and select portions of work
                                   identified in the bid solicitation for subcontracting to cert¡fied MBE/WBE firms;
                          2.       A listing of all MBE/WBE firms contacted that includes:

                                       o    Name, address, telephone number and email of MBE/WBE firms
                                            solicited;

                                       o    Date and time of contact;

                                       o    Method of contact (written, telephone, transmittal of facsimile
                                            docu ments, email, etc.)

                          3.       Copies of letters or any other evidence of mailing that substantiates outreach
                                   to MBE/WBE vendors that includes:
                                       o    Project identification and location;

                                       o    Classification/commodity of work items for which quotations were
                                            sought;

                                       o    Date, item and location for acceptance of subcontractor bid proposals;

                                       o    Detailed statement which summarizes direct negotiations with
                                            appropriate MBE/WBE firms for specific portions of the work and
                                            indicates why negotiations were unsuccessful;

                                                         36
                                                            RFP for lnformation Technology Assessment and Strategic Plan
                                                                                                Specification No. 680721


                                        o   Affirmation that Good Faith Efforts have been demonstrated by:
                                                 a   choosing subcontracting opportunities likely to achieve
                                                     MBE/WBE goals;

                                                 a   not imposing any limiting conditions which were not
                                                     mandatory for all subcontractors;
                                                a    providing notice of subcontracting opportunities to M/WBE
                                                     firms and assist agencies at least five (5) business days in
                                                     advance of the initial bid due date.


                        OR


b.             Subcontractor participation will be deemed excessively costly when the MBE/WBE subcontractor
               proposal exceeds the average price quoted by more than twenty percent (20%). ln order to
               establish that a subcontractor's quote is excessively costly, the bidder must provide the following
               information:
               1..      A detailed statement of the work identified for MBE/WBE participation for which the
                        bidder asserts the MBE/WBE quote(s) were excessively costly (in excess of 20% higher).

                        o     A listing of all potential subcontractors contacted for a quotation on that work item;

                        o     Prices quoted for the subcontract in question by all such potential subcontractors
                              for that work item.
               2.       Other documentation which demonstrates to the satisfaction of the Chief Procurement
                        Officer that the MBE/WBE proposals are excessively costly, even though not in excess of
                        20% higher than the average price quoted. This determination will be based on factors
                        that include, but are not limited to the following:
                        o     The City's estimate for the work under a specific subcontract;

                        o     The bidder's own estimate for the work under the subcontract;

                        o     An average of the bona fide prices quoted for the subcontract;

                        o     Demonstrated increase in other contract costs as a result of subcontracting to the
                              M/WBE or other firm.
     1.5,2.    Assist Agency Participation in wavier/reduction requests
     Every waiver and/or reduction request must include evidence that the bidder has provided timely notice
     of the need for subcontractors to an appropriate association/assist agency representative of the
     MBE/WBE business community. This notice must be given at least five (5) business days in advance of the
     initial bid due date.
     The notice requirement of this Section will be satisfied if a bidder contacts at least one of the associations
     on Attachment A to these Regulations when the prime contractor seeks a waiver or reduction in the
     utilization goals. Attachment B to these Regulations provides the letter format that a prime contractor
     may use. Proof of notification prior to bid submittal (e.g. certified mail receipt or facsimile transmittal
     receipt) will be required to be submitted with the bid for any bid/proposal to be deemed responsive. tf
     deemed appropriate, the Contract Compliance Officer may contact the assist agency for verification of
     notification.
     1.5.3. lmpracticability
     lf the Chief Procurement Officer determines that a lesser MBE and/or WBE percentage standard is
     appropriate with respect to a particular contract subject to competitive bidding prior to the bid
     solicitations for such contract, bid specifications shall include a statement of such revised standard


                                                       37
                                                         RFP for lnformation Technology Assessment and Strategic Plan
                                                                                             Specification No 680721


     Ihe requirements set forth in these Regulations (this subsection 1.5, "Reeulations Governing Reductions
    to or Waiver of MBEWBE Goals") shall not apply where the Chief Procurement Officer determines prior to
    the bid solicitations that MBE/WBE subcontractor participation is impracticable.
    This may occur whenever the Chief Procurement Officer determines that for reasons of time, need,
    industry practices or standards not previously known by the Chief Procurement Officer, or such other
    extreme circumstances as may be deemed appropriate, such a Waiver is in the best interests of the City.
    This determination may be made in connection with a particular contract, whether before the contract is
    let for bid, during the bid or award process, before or during negotiation of the contract, or during the
    performance of the contract.

    For all notifications required to be made by bidders, in situations where the Chief Procurement Officer has
    determined that time is of the essence, documented telephone contact may be substituted for letter
    contact.

1.6.      Procedure to Determine Bid Compliance
A bid may be rejected as non-responsive if it fails to submit one or more of the following with its bid
demonstrating its Good Faith Efforts to meet the Contract Specific Goals by reaching out to MBEs and WBEs to
perform work on the contract:
    ¡     An MBE/WBE compliance plan demonstrating how the bidder plans to meet the Contract Specific
          Goals; and/or

    .     A request for reduction or waiver of the Contract Specific Goals in accordance with Section 2-92-450
          of the MCC.

Only compliance plans utilizing MBE and WBE firms that meet BOTH the Commercially Useful Function and
Area of Specialty requirements will be counted toward the Contract Specific Goals.

The following Schedules and described documents constitute the bidder's MBE/WBE proposal, and must be
submitted in accordance with the guidelines stated:
    (1)       Schedule C-1: Letter of lntent from MBE/WBE to Perform as Subcontractor, Supplier and/or
             Consultant.
             The bidder must submit the appropriate $chedule C-1 with the bid for each MBE and WBE
              included on the Schedule D-1. Suppliers must submit the Schedule C-1 for Suppliers, first tier
             subcontractors must submit a Schedule C-1 for Subcontractors to the Prime Contractor and
             second or lower tier subcontractors must submit a Schedule C-1 for second tier Subcontractors.
             The City encourages subcontractors to utilize the electronic fillable format Schedule C-1, which is
             available at the Department of Procurement Services website, http://cityofchicago.org/forms.
             Each Schedule C-1 must be executed by each MBE and WBE and accurately detail the work to be
             performed by the MBE or WBE and the agreed upon rates/prices. Each Schedule C must also
             include a separate sheet as an attachment on which the MBE or WBE fully describes,its proposed
             scope of work, including a description of the commercially useful function being performed by
             the MBE or WBE in its Area of Specialty. lf a facsimile copy of the Schedule C-L has been
             submitted with the bid, an executed original Schedule C-1 must be submitted by the bidder for
             each MBE and WBE included on the Schedule D-1 within five business days after the date of the
             bid opening.

             Failure to submit a completed Schedule C-1 in accordance with this section shall entitle the City
             to deem the bid/proposal non-responsive and therefore reject the bid/proposal.
   (21       Letters of Certification.
             A copy of each proposed MBE/WBE firm's current Letter of Certification from the City of Chicago
             or Cook County lllinois, must be submitted with the bid/proposal. All Letters of Certification
             issued by the City of Chicago and Cook County include a statement of the MBE/WBE firm's Area




                                                    38
                                                             RFP for lnformation Technology Assessment and Strategic Plan
                                                                                                 Specification No 680721


                  of Specialty. The MBE/WBE firm's scope of work, as detailed by their Schedule C-1, must
                  conform to their stated Area of Specialty.
       (3)         Schedule B: Affidavit of Joint Venture, and Joint Venture Agreements (if applicable).
                   lf the bidder's MBE/WBE proposal includes the participation of a MBE/WBE as joint venture on
                   any t¡er (either as the bidder or as a subcontractor), the bidder must provide a copy of the joint
                   venture agreement and a Schedule B alongwith all other requirements listed in Section L.3,
                   "Joint Ventures," above. ln order to demonstrate the MBE/WBE partner's share in the
                   ownership, control, management responsibilities, risks and profits of the joint venture, the
                   proposed joint venture agreement must include specific details related to: (1) contributions of
                   capital and equipmen! (2) work responsibilities or other performance to be undertaken by the
                   MBE/WBE; and (3) the commitment of management, supervisory and operative personnel
                  employed by the MBE/WBE to be dedicated to the performance of the contract. The joint
                  venture agreement must also clearly define each partner's authority to contractually obligate the
                  joint venture and each partner's authority to expend joint venture funds (e.g., check signing
                  authority).
       (4)       Schedule D-1: Required Schedules Regarding MBE/WBE Utilization
                  Bidders must submit, together with the bid, a completed Schedule D-1 committing them to the
                  utilization of each listed MBE/WBE firm. The City encourages bidders to utilize the electronic
                 fillable format Schedule D-1, which is available at the Department of Procurement Services
                 website, http://cityofchicago.org/forms. Except in cases where the bidder has submitted a
                 request for a complete waiver of or variance from the MBE/WBE commitment in accordance
                 with                                                                                    herein, the
                 bidder must commit to the expenditure of a specific dollar amount of participation by each
                 MBE/WBE firm included on their Schedule D-1. The total dollar commitment to proposed MBEs
                 must at least equal the MBE goal, and the total dollar commitment to proposed WBEs must at
                 least equal the WBE goal. Bidders are responsible for calculating the dollar equivalent of the MBE
                 and WBE goals as percentages of their total base bids or in the case of Term Agreements,
                 depends upon requirements agreements and blanket agreements, as percentages ofthe total
                 estimated usage. All commitments made by the bidder's Schedule D-L must conform to those
                 presentedinthesubmittedScheduleC-L. lfScheduleC-lissubmittedaftertheopening,the
                 bidder may submit a revised Schedule D-1 (executed and notarized to conform with the
                 Schedules C-1). Bidders shall not be permitted to add MBEs or WBEs after bid opening to meet
                 the Contract Specific Goals, however, contractors are encouraged to add additional MBE/WBE
                 vendors to their approved compliance plan during the performance of the contract when
                 additional opportunities for participation are identified. Except in cases where substantial and
                 documented justification is provided, bidders will not be allowed to reduce the dollar
                 commitment made to any MBE or WBE in order to achieve conformity between the Schedules C-
                 1 and D-1.

                 All commitments for ioint venture aqreements must be delineated in the Schedule        B,

       (5)       Application for Approval of Mentor Protégé Agreement
                 Any applications for City approval of a Mentor Protégé agreement must be included with the bid.
                 lf the application is not approved, the bidder must show that it has made good faith efforts to
                 meet the contract specific goals.

1.7.         Reporting Requirements During the Term of the Contract
       a.       The Contractor will, not later than thirty (30) calendar days from the award of
                                                                                             a contract by the
                 City, execute formal contracts or purchase orders with the MBEs and WBEs included in their
                 approved MBE/WBE Utilization Plan. These written agreements will be made available to the
                 Chief Procurement Officer upon request.

       b.        The Contractor will be responsible for reporting payments to all subcontractors on a monthly
                 basis in the form of an electronic report. Upon the first payment issued by the City of Chicago to


                                                        39
                                                         RFP for lnformation Technology Assessment and Strategic Plan
                                                                                             Specification No. 680721


              the contractor for services performed, on the first day of each month and every month
              thereafter, email and or fax audit notifications will be sent out to the Contractor with instructions
              to report payments that have been made in the prior month to each subcontractor. The
              reporting of payments to all subcontractors must be entered into the Certification and
              Compliance Monitoring System (C2), or whatever reporting system is currently in place, on or
              before the fifteenth (15th) day of each month.

   c.        Once the prime Contractor has reported payments made to each subcontractor, including zero
             dollar amount payments, the subcontractor will receive an email and or fax notification
             requesting them to log into the system and confirm payments received. All monthly
             confirmations must be reported on or before the 20th day of each month. Contractor and
             subcontractor reporting to the C2 system must be completed by the 25th of each month or
             payments may be withheld.

   d.        All subcontract agreements between the contractor and MBE/WBE firms or any first tier non-
             certified firm and lower tier MBE/WBE firms must contain language requiring the MBE/WBE to
             respond to ema il and/or fax n otifications from the City of Chicago requ iring them to report
             payments received for the prime or the non-certified firm.

             Access to the Certification and Compliance Monitoring System (C2), which is a web based
             reporting system, can be found at: httos://chicaeo.mwdbe.com
   e.        The Chief Procurement Officer or any party designated by the Chief Procurement Officer, shall
             have access to the contractor's books and records, including without limitation payroll records,
             tax returns and records and books of account, to determine the contractor's compliance with its
             commitment to MBE and WBE participation and the status of any MBE or WBE performing any
             portionofthecontract.Thisprovisionshall       beinadditionto,andnotasubstitutefor,anyother
             provision allowing inspection of the contractor's records by any officer or official of the City for
             any purpose.

   f.        The Contractor shall maintain records of all relevant data with respect to the utilization of MBEs
             and WBEs, retaining these records for a period of at least five years after project closeout. Full
             access to these records shall be granted to City, federal or state authorities or other authorized
             persons.

1.8.   Changes to Compliance Plan
  1.8.1. Permissible Basis for Change Required
  No changes to the Compliance Plan or contractual MBE and WBE commitments or substitution of MBE or
  WBE subcontractors may be made without the prior written approval of the Contract Compliance Officer.
  Unauthorized changes or substitutions, including performing the work designated for a subcontractor
  with the contractor's own forces, shall be a violation of these Special Conditions and a breach of the
  contract with the City, and may cause termination of the executed Contract for breach, andlor subject the
  bidder or contractor to contract remedies or other sanctions. The facts supporting the request for
  changes must not have been known nor reasonably could have been known by the parties prior to
  entering into the subcontract. Bid shopping is prohibited. The bidder or contractor must negotiate with
  the subcontractor to resolve the problem. lf requested by either party, the Department of Procurement
  Services shall facilitate such a meeting. Where there has been a mistake or disagreement about the scope
  of work, the MBE or WBE can be subst¡tuted only where an agreement cannot be reached for a
  reasonable price for the correct scope of work.

  Substitutions of a MBE or WBE subcontractor shall be permitted only on the following basis:

        a)   Unavailability after receipt of reasonable notice to proceed;

        b)   Failure of performance;

        c)   Financialincapacity;



                                                    40
                                                             RFP for lnformation Technology Assessment and Strategic Plan
                                                                                                 Specification No. 680721


          d)    Refusal by the subcontractor to honor the bid or proposal price or scope;

          e)   Mistake of fact or law about the elements of the scope of work of a solicitation where        a
               reasonable price cannot be agreed;

         f)    Failure of the subcontractor to meet insurance, licensing or bonding requirements;

         g)    The subcontractor's withdrawal of its bid or proposal; or

         h)    De-certification of the subcontractor as a MBE or WBE (graduation from the MBE/WBE program
               does not const¡tute de-certification).

         i)    Termination of a Mentor Protégé Agreement.

     1.8.2. Procedure for Requesting Approval
     lf it becomes necessary to substitute a MBE or WBE or otherwise change the Compliance Plan, the
     procedure will be as follows:

         a)    The bidder or contractor must notify the Contract Compliance Officer and Chief Procurement
               Officer in writing of the request to substitute a MBE or WBE or otherwise change the Compliance
               Plan. The request must state specific reasons for the substitution or change. A letter from the
               MBE or WBE to be substituted or affected by the change stating that it cannot perform on the
               contract or that it agrees with the change in its scope of work must be submitted with the
               request.

         b)    The City will approve or deny a request for substitution or other change within 15 business days
               of receipt of the written request.
         c)    Where the bidder or contractor has established the basis for the substitution to the satisfaction
               of the Chief Procurement Officer, it must make Good Faith Efforts to meet the Contract Specific
               Goal by substituting a MBE or WBE subcontractor. Documentation of a replacement MBE or
               WBE, or of Good Faith Efforts, must meet the requirements in section 5. lf the MBE or WBE
               Contract Specific Goal cannot be reached and Good Faith Efforts have been made, as determined
               by the Chief Procurement Officer, the bidder or contractor may substitute with a non-MBE or
               non-WBE.

         d)    lf a bidder or contractor plans to hire a subcontractor for any scope of work that was not
               previously disclosed in the Compliance Plan, the bidder or contractor must obta¡n the approval of
               the Chief Procurement Officer to modify the Compliance Plan and must make Good Faith Efforts
               to ensure that MBEs or WBEs have a fair opportunity to bid on the new scope of work.
         e)    A new subcontract must be executed and submitted to the Contract Compliance Officer within
               five business days of the bidder's or contractor's receipt of City approval for the substitution or
               other change.
    The City shall not be required to approve extra payment for escalated costs incurred by the contractor
    when a substitution of subcontractors becomes necessary to comply with MBE/WBE contract
    requirements.



1.9. Non-Compliance and Damages
Without limitation, the following shall constitute a material breach of this contract and entitle the City to
declare a default, terminate the contract, and exercise those remedies provided for in the contract, at law or
in equity: (1)failure to demonstrate Good Faith Efforts; and (2)disqualification as a MBE or WBE of the
contractor or any joint venture partner, subcontractor or supplier if its status as an MBE or WBE was a factor
in the award of the contract and such status was misrepresented by the contractor,

Payments due to the contractor may be withheld until corrective action is taken.




                                                        4t
                                                           RFP for lnformation Technology Assessment and Strategic Plan
                                                                                               Specification No. 680721


 Pursuant to MCC 2-92-445 or 2-92-740, as appl¡cable, remedies or sanctions may include a penalty ¡n the
 amount of the discrepancy between the amount of the commitment in the Compliance Plan, as such amount
 may be amended through change orders or otherwise over the term of the contract, and the amount paid to
 MBEs or WBEs, and disqualification from contracting or subcontracting on additional City contracts for up to
 three years. The consequences provided herein shall be in addition to any other criminal or civil liability to
 which such entities may be subject.

 The contractor shall have the right to protest the final determination of non-compliance and the imposition of
 any penalty by the Chief Procurement Officer pursuant to MCC 2-92-445 or 2-92-740, within 15 business days
 of the final determination.

 1.10. Arbitration
    a) ln the event a contractor has not complied       with the contractual MBE/WBE percentages in its
          Schedule D, underutilization of MBEs/WBEs shall entitle the affected MBE/WBE to recover from the
          contractor damages suffered by such entity as a result of being underutilized; provided, however,
          that this provision shall not apply to the extent such underutilization occurs pursuant to a waiver or
          substitution approved by the City. The Ordinance and contracts subject thereto provide that any
          disputes between the contractor and such affected MBEs/WBEs regarding damages shall be resolved
          by binding arbitration before an independent arbitrator other than the City, with reasonable
          expenses, including attorney's fees, being recoverable by a prevailing MBE/WBE in accordance with
          these regulations. This provision is intended for the benefit of any MBE/WBE affected by
          underutilization and grants such entity specific third party beneficiary rights. Any rights conferred by
          this regulation are non-waivable and take precedence over any agreement to the contrary, including
          but not limited to those contained in a subcontract, suborder, or communicated orally between         a
          contractor and a MBE/WBE.
     b)   An MBE/WBE desiring to arbitrate shall contact the contractor in writing to initiate the arbitrative
          process. Except as otherwise agreed to in writing by the affected parties subject to the limitation
          contained in the last sentence of the previous paragraph, within ten (10) calendar days of the
          contractor receiving notification of the intent to arbitrate from the MBE/WBE the above-described
          disputes shall be arbitrated in accordance with the Commercial Arbitration Rules of the American
          Arbitration Association (AAA), a not-for-profit agency, with an office at 225 North Michigan Avenue,
          SuiLe2527, Chicago, lllinois 60601-7601 lPhone: (312) 616-6560; Fax: (312) 81-9-0404]. All such
          arbitrations shall be initiated by the MBE/WBE filing a demand for arbitration with the AAA; shall be
          conducted by the AAA; and held in Chicago, lllinois.

    c)    All arbitration fees are to be paid pro rata by the parties, however, that the arbitrator is authorized to
          award reasonable expenses, including attorney and arbitrator fees, as damages to a prevailing
          MBE/WBE.

    d)    The MBE/WBE must send the City a copy of the Demand for Arbitration within ten (10) calendar days
          after it is filed with the AAA. The MBE/WBE also must send the City a copy of the decision of the
          arbitrator within ten (10) calendar days of receiving such decision. Judgment upon the award
          rendered by the arbitrator may be entered in any court of competent jurisdiction.

t,tt,     Equal EmploymentOpportunity
Compliance with MBE and WBE requirements will not diminish or supplant equal employment opportunity
and civil rights provisions as required by law.

t.L2.     Attachments and Schedules
The following attachments and schedules follow, they may also be downloaded from the lnternet at:
http ://www.citvofchicago,orelforms

    o     Attachment A: Assist Agencies
    o     Attachment B: Sample Format for Requesting Assist Agency Comments on Bidder's Request for
          Reduction or Waiver of MBE/WBE Goals


                                                      42
                                                 RFP for lnformation Ïechnology Assessment and Strategic Plan
                                                                                     Specification No. 680721


    Schedule B: Affidavit of Joint Venture (MBE/WBE)

a   Schedule C-1: Letter of lntent From MBE/WBE To Perform As Subcontractor, Supplier and/or
    Consultant
a   Schedule D-1: Compliance Plan Regarding MBE/WBE Utilization




                                            43
                                                                                RFP for lnformation Technology Assessment and Strategic Plan
                                                                                                                    Specification No. 68072'1


Attachment A -Assist Agency list

                                          ì.i lr l',¡   ll i lvi I i\i ,   ,i                               CITY OF CHICAGO
                                       PROCUREMENT
        {                              SERVICES                                                       ASSIST AGENCY LIST
             Assist Agencies are comprised of not-for-profit agencies and/or chamber of commerce agencies
             that represent the interest of small, minority and/or women owned businesses.

             American Brotherhood of Contractors                                       Chatham Business Association Small Business
             935 West 175th Street                                                     Development, lnc.
             Homewood, lllinois 60430                                                  8441 S. Cottage Grove Avenue
             Phone: (773) 491-5640                                                     Chicago, lL 60619
             Email: arba@constructive-business.com                                     Phone: (773)994-5006
                                                                                       Fax: (773)994-9871
            Asian American Business Expo                                               Email: melkelcba@sbcglobal.nel
            207 East Ohio S1. Suite 218                                                Web: w¡lw.cbaworks.orq
            Chicago, lL 60611
            Phone:312-233-2810                                                         Ghicago Area Gay & Lesbian
            Fax: 312-268-6388                                                          Chamber of Gommerce
            Email: Janny@AsianAmericanBusinessExpo.org                                 3656 N. Halsted
                                                                                       Chicago, lL 606'13
            Asian American lnstitute                                                   Phone: (773) 303-0167
            4753 N. Broadway St. Suite 904                                             Fax: (773) 303-0168
            Chicago, IL 60640                                                          E maif ; info@glchamber.org
            Phone: (773) 2714859                                                       Web: www.olcha mber.org
            Fax: (773)271-1982
            Email: kfernicola@aaichicago.o rg                                          Chicago Minority Supplier Development
            Web: wr¡lvv.aaichicaqo.oro                                                 Councll, lnc.
                                                                                       105 W. Adams, Suile 2300
            Assoc¡ation of As¡an Construction Enterprises                              Chicago, lL 60603-6233
            333 N. Ogden Avenue                                                        Phone: (312) 755-8880
            Chicago, lL 60607                                                          Fax: (312) 755-8890
            Phone: (847) 525-9693                                                      E mail: pbarreda@chicagomsdo.org
            Email : !.etqa.ngg¡¡.GDao!.com                                             web: g4@.9$sg@!.g.9Jg

            Black Contractors United                                                   Chicago Urban League
            4OO W. 76th Street, Suite 200                                              4510 S. Michigan Ave.
            Chicago, lL 60620                                                          Chicago, lL 60653
            Phone: (773 483-4000                                                       Phone: (773) 285-5800
            Fax: (773) 483-4"150                                                       Fax: (773) 285-7772
            Email: bcunewera@att.net                                                   Email:.rei@
            Web: wwvv.blackcontractorcunited.com                                       Web: wvw¡.cul-chicaqo.orq

            Cosmopolitan Chamber of Commerce                                           Chicago Women in Trades (CWIT)
            203 N. Wabash, Suite 5'18                                                  4425S.Western Blvd.
            Chicago, lL 60601                                                          Chicago, lL 60609-3032
            Phone:(312) 4994611                                                        Phone: (773) 376-'1450
            Fax: (312)332-2688                                                         Fax: (312) 942-0802
            Email: ccarey@cosmococ.org                                                 E mail : cr¡ritinf o @øuil2.org
            Web: vwvw.cosmocham ber.orq                                                Web: wurw.ch icaqowomenintrades.orc

            Eightee nth Street Development Corporation                                 Coalition fof United Community Labor Force
            '1843 South Carpenter                                                      1253W.63'd Street
            Chicago, lllinois 60608                                                    Chicago, lL 60636
            Phone: (312) 733-2287                                                      Phone: (312) 243-5149
            Fax: (773)-353-1683                                                        E mail: john rev.hatchelt@comcast.nel
            asoto(@eiqhteenthstreel.orq




                                                                           44
                                                        RFP for lnformation Technology Assessment and Strategic Plan
                                                                                            Specification No 680721




                                 C¡fv of Ch¡câõô           of Procurement Services - Assíst Aoencies {cont'dì


 Federation of Women Contractors                               Rainbow/PUSH Coalition
5650 S. Archer Avenue                                          lnternational Trade Bureau
Chicago, lL 60638                                              930 E. 50th Street
Phone: (312) 360-1122                                          Chicago, lL 60615
Fax: (312) 360-0239                                            Phone: (/73) 256-2781
Email: fwcchicago@aol.com                                      Fax: (773) 373-4104
Web : wrrvrru.fwcch ica qo.com                                 E mail: bevans@raínbowpush.org
                                                               web:w.i!Þgg!gsl-9tg
Hispaníc American Construction lndustry Association
(HACÍA)                                                        South Shore Chamber, lncorporated
650 West Lake Street                                           Black United Funds Bldg.
Chicago, lL 60661                                              '1750E.71* Slreet
Phone: (312) 666-5910                                          Chicago, lL 60649-2000
Fax: (312) 666-5692                                            Phone: (773) 955- 9508
E mail : nfo@ haciaworks.org
       i                                                       E mail: sshorechamber@sbcqlobal.net
Web: r¡¡ffw. haciaworks.orq                                    Web: www.southshorechamberinc.orq

lllino¡s Hlspanic Ghamber of Commerce                          Suburban Minority Contractors Associat¡on
855W. Adams, Suite 100                                         1250 Grove Ave. Suite 200
Chicago, lL 60607                                              Barrington, lL 60010
Phone: (312) 425-9500                                          Phone: (847) 852-5010
Fax: (312) 425-9510                                            Fax: (847) 382-1787
Email: oduque@ihccbusiness.net                                 Email: aprilcobra@hotmail.com
Web : www. i hccbusiness. net                                  Web: t¡n¡¡¡l.suburbanblackcontractors.orq

Latln American Chamber of Commerce                             Women Constructlon Owners & Executives
3512 West Fuflerton Avenue                                     (wcoE)
Chicago, lL 60647                                              Chicago Caucus
Phone: (773) 252-5211                                          308 Circle Avenue
Fax: (773) 252-7065                                            Foresl Park, lL 60130
Email: d, lorenzopad ron@latinanrericanchamberofcommerce,com   Phone: (708) 366-1250
Web: wvnry.latinamericanchamberofcommerce.com                  Fax: (708) 366-5418
                                                               Email: mkm@mkmservices.com
National Organization of Minority Engineers                    web:@fg
33 West  Monroe Suite 1540
Chicago, lllinois 60603                                        Women's Buslness Development Center
Phone: (312) 425-9560                                          I South Michigan Ave., Suite 400
Fax: (312) 425-9564                                            Chicago, lL 60603
Email: shandy@inf rastructure-en g.com                         Phone: (312) 853-3477
Web: www.nomeonline.orq                                        Fax: (312) 853-0145
                                                               Email: fcuny@wbdc.org
                                                               Web: w¡¡rv.wbdc.orq
National Association of Women Business Owners
Chicago Chapter
230 E. Ohio, Suite 400
Chicago, lL 60611
Phone: (312) 224-2605
Fax: (312) 6448557
Email: info@nawboohicago.org
Web: wr¡¡¡l.nawbochicaqo.orq




                                                   45
                                                                     RFP for lnformation Technology Assessment and Strateg¡c Plan
                                                                                                         Specification No. 680721


      Attachment B - Sample Format for Requestíng Assist Agency Comments on Bidder's Request for Reduction or
      Waiver of MBE/WBE Goals
 On Bidder/Proposer's Letterhead - SEND TO THE ASSIST AGENCIES - DO NOT SEND TO THE CITY

 RETURN RECEIPT REQUESTED

 (Date)

 Specification No.:      68072L
 Project Description:    lnformation Technology Assessment and Strategic Plan


 (Assist Agency Name and Address    -   SEND TO THE ASSIST AGENCIES     -   DO NOT SEND TO THE CIW)

 Dear                                   :




                          (Bidder/Proposer) intends       to submit a    bid/proposal in response to the above referenced
specification with the City of Chicago. Bids are due                    advertised specification with the City of Chicago.

The following areas have been identified for subcontracting opportunities on both a direct and indirect basis:




Our efforts   to identify potential subcontractors have not been successful in order to meet the Disadvantaged/
Minority/Women Business Enterprise contract goal. Due to the inability to ¡dentífy an appropriate DBE/MBE/WBE f¡rm
certified by the City of Chicago to part¡cipate as a subcontractor or jo¡nt venture partner, a request for the waiver of the
contract goals will be submitted. lf you are aware of such a firm, please contact


Name of Company Representative                      at                          Address/Phone

within (10) ten business days of receipt of this letter

Under the City of Chicago's MBE/WBE/DBE Ordinance, your agency is entitled to comment upon this waiver request to the
City of Chicago. Written comments may be directed within ten (10) working days of your receipt of this letter to:

Monica Jimenez, Deputy Procurement Officer
Department of Procu rement Services
City of Chicago
L2L North La Salle Street, Room 806
Chicago, lllinois 60602

lf you wish to discuss this matter, please contact the undersigned at

Sincerely,




                                                                46
                                                                  RFP for lnformation Technology Assessment and Strategic Plan
                                                                                                      Specification No. 680721


Schedule B - Affidavit of Joint Venture



                                         SCHEDULE       B: Affidavit of Jo¡nt Venture      (MBE/WBE)


               This form need not be submitted if all joint venturers are MBEs and/or WBEs. ln such a case, however, a
               written joint venture agreement among the MBE and WBE venturers must be submitted. ln all proposed joint
               ventures, each MBE and/or WBE venturer must submit a copy of their current Letter of Certification.

               All lnformation Requested by this Schedule must Be Ansu,ered in the Spaces Provided. Do Not Refer to Your
               Joint Venture Agreement Except to Expand on Answers Provided on this Form. lf Additional Space ls
               Required, Additional Sheets May Be Attached.

               l.     Name of joint venture
                      Address of joint venture

                      Phone number of joint venture

               ll.    ldentify each non-MBEM/BE venturer(s):
                      Name of Firm:
                      Address:
                      Phone:
                      Contact person for rntters concerning MBÚWBE compliance:

               lll.   ldentify each MBE/\¡VBE venturer(s):
                      Name of
                      Address:

                      Contact person for matters concerning MBEM/BE complia

              lV.     Describe the role(s) of the MBE and/or WBE venturer(s) in the joint venture:




              V       Attach a copv of the ioint venture aoreement. ln order to demonstrate the MBE and/or WBE venturer's
                      share in the ownership, control, management responsibilities, risks and profits of the joint venture, the
                      proposed joint venture agreement must include specific details related to: (1) the contributions of
                      capital and equipment; (2) urcrk ¡tems to be performed by the MBEM/BE's own forces; (3) work items to
                      be performed under the supervision of the MBEMBE venturer; and (4) the commitment of
                      managenrent, superv¡sory and operative personnel employed by the MBEA/úBE to be dedicated to the
                      performance of the projecl.

              VI      Ownership of the Joint Venture.
                      A. What are the percentage(s) of MBEM/BE        ownership of the joint venture?
                                     MBEM/BE ownership percentage(s)
                                     Non-MBEM/BE ownership percentage(s)

                      B. Specify MBEM/BE percentages for each of the following (provide narrative descriptions and other
                      detaíl as applicable):

                      1.     Profit and loss sharing

                      2      Capital contributions :
                             (a)     Dollar amounts of initial contribution:
                                                                   Page 1 of 5




                                                             47
                                                        RFP for lnformation Technology Assessment and Strategic Plan
                                                                                            Specification No. 680721




                                Schedule B: Affidavit of Joint Venture (MBE^ÂÍBE)



               (b)      Dollar amounts of anticipated on-going contr¡butions:


3      Contributions of equipment (Specify types, quality and quantities of equipment to be provided by each
       venturer):




4.     Other applicable ovurership interests, including ownership options or other agreements wlrich restrict or
       limit ownership and/or control:




5.     Provide copies of 4l! vwitten agreements between venturers concerning this project.

6      ldentify each current City of Chicago contract (and each contract completed during the past tuo (2)
      years) by a joint venture of two or more firrns participating in this joint venture:




vil   Control of and Participation in the Joint Venture. ldentify by name and firm those individuals who are,
      or will be, responsible for, and have the authority to engage in the following management functions and
      policy decisions. (lndicate any limitations to their authority such as dollar limits and co-signatory
      requirements.):

A.    Joint venture check signing:




B.    Authority to enter contracts on behalf of the joint venture




C.    Sígning, co-signing and/or collateralizing loans:




D.    Acquisition of lines of credit:



                                                    Page 2 of 5




                                                  48
                                                        RFP for lnformation Technology Assessment and Strategic Plan
                                                                                            Specification No. 680721




                                    Schedule B: Affidavit of Joint Venture (MBE/WBE)



 E.     Acquisition and indemnification of payment and performance bonds




F.       Negotiating and signing labor agreements




G.      Management of contract performance. (ldentify by name and firm only)

        1   .   Supervision of field operatio

        2.      Major

        3.      Estirmting

        4.      Engineering


vilt.   Financial Controls of joint venture:
A.      Which firm and/or individual will be responsible for keeping the books of account?


B.      ldentify the manaEing partner, if any, and describe the means and measure of their compensation:




c       What authority does each venturer have to commit or obligate the other to insurance and bonding
        companies, financing institutions, suppliers, subcontractors, and/or othgr parties participating in the
        performance of this contrac{ or the work of this project?




tx.     State the approxirnate number of operative personnel (by trade) needed to perform the joint venture's
        work under this contract. lndicate whether they will be employees of the non-MBEM/BE firm, the
        MBE        firm, or the joint venture.
                  ^/BE




                                                     Page 3 of 5




                                                   49
                                                           RFP for lnformation Technology Assessment and Strategic Plan
                                                                                               Specification No 680721




                                  Schedule B: Affidavit of Joint Venture (MBE/WBE)



         Trade               Non-MBE/VUBE Firm                    MBEM/BE                 Joint Venture
                                    (Number)                         (Number)                  (Number)




lf   g¡y personnel proposed for this project will be employees of the joint venture:
A.        Are g¡y proposed joint venture employees currently employed by either venturer?
          Currently employed by non-MBEM/BE (number)          _           Employed by MBÐWBE        _
B.        ldentify by name and firm the individual who will be responsible for hiring joint venture employees:


c.        \A/hich venturer will be responsible for the preparation of joint venture payrolls


X.        Please state any material facts of additional infornption pertinent to the control and structure of this
          joint venture.




                                                       Page 4 of 5




                                                     50
                                               RFP for lnformation Technology Assessment and Strategic Plan
                                                                                   Specification No. 680721




                       Schedule B: Affidavit of Joint Venture (MBE/WBE)


The undersigned affirms that the foregoing statements are correct and include all material
inforrnation necessary to identify and explain the terns and operations of our joint venture and
the intended participation of each venturer in the undertaking. Further, the undersigned
covenant and agree to provide to the City current, complete and accurate information regarding
actual joint venture work and the payment therefore, and any proposed changes in any
prov¡sion of the joint venture agreement, and to permit the audit and examination of the books,
records and files of the joint venture, or those of each venturer relevant to the joint venture by
authorized representatives of the City or the Federal funding agency.

Any material misrepresentation will be grounds for terminating any contract which may be
au¡arded and for initiating action under federal or state lavræ concerning false statements.

      Note: lf, after filing this Schedule B and before the completion on the joint venture's work
      on the project, there is any change in the information submitted, the joint venture must
      inform the City of Chicago, either directly or through the prime contractor if the joint
      venture is a subcontractor.


       Name of MBEM/BE Partner Firm                            Name of Non-MBEMBE Partner
                                                      Firm


       Signature of Affiant                                           Signature of Affiant


       Name and Title of Affiant                                      Name and Title of Affiant


       Date                                                                   Date


       On this   _     day of                  ,20   _,   the above-signed officers



      personally appeared and, known to me be the persons described in the foregoing
      Affidavit, acknowledged that they executed the same in the capacity therein stated and
      for the purpose therein contained.

      lN WITNESS WHEREOF, I hereunto set nry hand and official seal



                                                               Signature of Notary Public

      My Commission Expires:


                                                      (sEAL)



                                           Page 5 of 5




                                          51
                                                                                             RFP for lnformation Technology Assessment and Strategic Plan
                                                                                                                                 Specification No 680721


Schedule      C-l: letter of Intent From MBE/WBE To Perform                                          As Subcontractor, Supplier andlor Consultant


                                                                                                                                       FOR
                                                                                                                           NON.CONSTRUCTION
                                                                  SCHEDULE C.1                                              PROJECTS ONLY
                                                MBEATE}E Letter of lntent to Perform as a
                                                    Subcontractor, Supplier, or Consultant



  Project                                                                                     Specification No

  From:
                                                (Name of MBE             Firm)
                                                                  ^/BE
  To:                                                                                                                 and the City of Chicago.
                                                (Name of Prime Contractor)

  The MBE or WBE status of the undersigned is confirmed by the attached City of Chicago or Cook County, lllinois
  Ce¡tification Letter. 100% MBE or WBE participation is credited for the use of a MBE or WBE "manufacturer.'' 60%
  participation ís credited for the use of a MBE or WBE "regular dealer                         ''


 The undersigned is prepared to perform the following services in connection with the above named projecUcontract. lf more
 space is required to fully describe the MBE or WBE proposed scope of work and/or payment schedule, including a
 description of the commercially useful function being performed. Attach additional sheets as necessary:




 The above described performance is offered for the following price and described terms of payment:




 SUB.SUBCONTRACTING LEVELS
 A zero (0) must be shown in each blank if the MBE or WBE will not be subcontracling any of the work listed or attached to
 this schedule.

               % of the dollar value of the MBE or WBE subcontract that will be subcontracted to non MBE/I¡VBE contractors.
               o/o
                     of the dollar value of the MBE or WBE subcontract that will be subcontracted to MBE or WBE contractors.

 NOTICE: lf any of the MBE or WBE scope of work          will be subcontracted, list the name ol the vendor and attach a
              brlef explanatlon, descrlptlon and pay ltem number of the work thet will be subcontracted. MBEÍV\,BE
              credlt wlll not be glven fo¡ work subcontracted to Non-MBE/1,llBE contrac'tors, except for as allowed in the
              Speclel Condltlons Regafdlng Mlnorlty Buslness Enterprlse Commltment and Women Buslness Enterprlse
              Comndtment.

 The undersigned will enter into a formal written agreement for the above work with you as a Prime Contractor, conditioned
 upon your execution of a contract with the City of Chicago, within three (3) business days of your receipt of a signed contract
 from the City of Chicago.

 The undersigned has entered into a formal written mentor protégé agreement as a subcontrac-tor/protégé with you as a
 PrimeContractor/mentor: ( )Yes ( )No

 NoTIGE: THIS SCHEDULE ANDATTACHMENTS REOUIRE ORIGINAL SIGNATURES.


            (slgnaIUfe   oT   Pfesloenvwvnef/UtsU   0r AUtnorlzeo Agent 0f MHtsJVVuE)                                      (uare)



            (Name/ I ße-Ptease Pfnl)



            (Email 6 Hnone t\umoer)

 08t2013                                                                                                                            Page   1   of   1




                                                                                        52
                                                                    RFP for lnformation Technology Assessment and Strategic Plan
                                                                                                        Specification No 680721




Schedule         D-l: Affidavít of lmplementation of MBE/WBE Goals and Participation                     Plan



                                                                                                                     FOR
                                                       SCHEDULE D.1                                     NON-CONSTRUCTION
                                    Compliance Plan Regarding MBEMßE Utilization                          PROJECTS ONLY
                                            Affìdavit of Prime Contractor

            MUST BE SUBMITTEDWITH THE BIO. FAILURE TO SUBMITTHE SCHEDULE D.I WILL CAUSE THE
                              BID TO BE REJECTED. DUPLICATEAS NEEDED.

    Project Name

    Specification No

    ln connection with the above captioned contract, I HEREBY DECLARE AND AFFIRM that I am a duly authorized
    representative of
                                        (Name of Prime ConsuttanUContractor)

    and that I have personally reviewed the material and facts set forth herein describing our proposed plan to achieve the
    MBEMBE goals of this contract

    All MBE/VVBE firms included in this plan have been certifled as such by the City of Chicago            andlor     CookCounty,
    lllinois (Letters of Certification Attached)

    l.        Direct Participation of MBEMBEFiTms:


         NOTE: The bidder/proposer shall, in determining the manner of MBE /VBE participation, first consider involvement with
         MBE^/I/BE firms as joint venture partners, subcontractors, and suppliers of goods and services directly related to the
         performance of this conhact

         A. lf bidder/proposer    is a joint venture and one or more joint venture partners are certified MBEs or WBEs, attach
              copies of Letters of Certifcation, Schedule B form and a copy of Joint Venture Agreement clearly describing the role
              of each MBEÂIVBE firm(s) and ¡ts ownership interest in the joint venture.

         B.   Complete this section for each [/BE^/VBE Subcontractor/Supplier/Consultant participating on this contract:

                  1.   Name of MBEMBE:




                       Contact

                       Phone

                       Dollar Value of Participatio n$

                       Percentage of Participation   o/o



                       Mentor Protégé Agreement (attaoh exeouted copy):        ( ) Yes ( ) No   Add'l Percentage   Claimed:t_%
                       Total Partlcipatlon   %_
                 2.    Name of MBEMBE:



                       Contact



t
 The Prime Contractor may claim an additional 0.333 percent participation credit (up to a maximum of five (5) percent) for
every one (1 ) percent of the value of the oontract performed by the MBEÄIVBE protégé       firm,                        ,




0\nu3                                                                                                           Page 1 of 5




                                                              53
                                                               RFP for lnformation Technology Assessment and Strategic Plan
                                                                                                   Specification No 680721




                          Schedule D-1 : Prime Contractor Affidavit-MBEM/BE Compliance Plan

                  Phone

                  Dollar Value of Participation s

                  Percentage of Participation %

                  Mentor Protégé Agreement (attach executed copy):   ( ) Yes ( ) No   Add'l Percentage   Claimed:_%
                  Total Part¡c¡pation   %_
            3.    Name of MBEÄIVBE:




                 Contact

                  Phone

                 Dollar Value of Participation     h



                 Percentage of Participation      o/o



                 Mentor Protégé Agreement (attach executed copy):    ( ) Yes ( ) No   Add'l Percentage Claimed:    _%
                 Total Participation    o/o
                                              _
            4.   Name of MBE¡/VBE:



                 Contact Person:

                 Phone

                 Dollar Value of Participation $

                 Percentage of Partioipation %

                 Mentor Protégé Agreement (attach executed copy):    ( ) Yes ( ) No   Add'l Percentage   Claimed:_%
                 Total Participation    Vo    _
           5.    Attach Additional Sheets as Needed

 ll. lndirect Partic¡pat¡on of MBE/WBE Firms
     NOTE: This section need not be completed if the MBE^/VBE goals have been met through the direct participation
                            I
     outlined in Section lf the MBE /VBE goals have not been met through direct participation, Contractor will be
     expected to demonstrate that the proposed MBE /VBE direct partic¡pation represents the maximum achievable under
     the circumstances Only after such a demonstration will indirect participation be considered.

M BE^//BE Subcontractorlsuppliers/Consultants      proposed to perform work or supply goods or services where such
performance does not directly relate to the performance of this contract:

           L     Name of MBE/úVBE:

                 Address:

                 Contact Person:

08t2013                                                                                              Page 2 of 5




                                                          54
                                                                 RFP for lnformation Technology Assessment and Strategic Plan
                                                                                                     Specification No. 680721




                       Schedule   D-l:      Prime Gontractor Affidavit-MBEA/VBE Gompliance Plan

                Phone

                Dollar Value of Participatio n$

                Percentage of Participation %

                Mentor Protégé Agreement (attach executed copy):    ( ) Yes ( ) No       Add'l Percentage   Claimed:_%
                Total Participation   %_
          2.    Name of MBE//VBE:

                Address:

                Contact Person:

                Phone Number;

               Dollar Value of Participation

               Percentage of Participation      o/o



               Mentor Protégé Agreement (attach executed copy):    ( ) Yes ( ) No       Add'l Percentage    Claimed:_%
               Total Participation    o/o
                                            _
          3.   NameofMBSWBE:

               Address:

               Contact Person:

               Phone

               Dollar Value of Participation    c,



               Percentage of Partioipation %

               Mentor Protégé Agreement (attach executed copy):    ( ) Yes (   )   No   Add'l Percentage    Claimed:   %

               Total Participation    %_
          4.   Name of IVBEÁ/i/BE:




               Corìtact

               Phone N

               Dollar Value of Participatio n$

               Percentage of Participation %

               Mentor Protégé Agreement (attach executed copy):    ( ) Yes ( ) No       Add'l Percentage   Claimed:_%
               Total Participatlon %    _
          5.   Attach Additional Sheets as Needed


0812013                                                                                               Page 3 of 5




                                                            55
                                                                     RFP for lnformation Technology Assessment and Strategic Plan
                                                                                                         Specification No. 680721




                            Schedule   D-l:    Prime Contractor Affidavit-MBE/I/VBE Compliance Plan

   lll. Sumnrary of MBE/WBE Proposal
      A. MBE Proposal (Direct & lndirect)
          1 MBE Direct Participat¡on
                                  MBE Firm Name
                                                                      Dollar Amount             Percent Amount
                                                                      Participation ($)         Particiþat¡on (%l




                          Total Direct MBE Participation



         2        MBE lndirect Participation

                                                                      Oollar Amount            Percent Amount
                                 MBE Fifm Name
                                                                      Particioafion lSì        Particination lol^ì




                         Total lndirect MBE Participation

    B. WBE Proposal (Direct & lndirect)

         'l   .   WBE Direct Participation

                                                                       Oollar Ariount          Percent Amount
                                 WBE Firm Name
                                                                      Partic¡Datlon l$l        ParticiDation l%ì




                         Total Direct WBE Participation

         2.       WBE lndirect Participation


                                I/VBE Firm Name
                                                                      Dollar Amount            Percent Amount
                                                                      Particioation l$l        Particioation l%ì




                        Total lndirect WBE Participation



082013                                                                                                   Page 4 of 5




                                                                56
                                                                                  RFP for lnformation Technology Assessment and Strategic Plan
                                                                                                                      Specification No. 680721




                               Schedule        D-l: Prime Contractor Affidavit-MBEM/BE Compliance              Plan



 The Prime Contractor designates the following person as its MBE/WBE Liaison Officer


     (Narne- Please Print or Type)                                                         (Phone)

 I DO SOLEMNLY DECLARE AND AFFIRM UNDER PENALTIES OF PERJURY THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
 FOREGOING OOCUMENT ARE TRUE AND CORRECT, THAT NO MATERTAL FACTS HAVE BEEN OM|TTED, ANO
 THAT I AM AUTHORIZED ON BEHALF OF THE PRIME CONTRACTOR TO NNAKE THIS AFFIDAVIT.




 (Name of Prirne Contractor       -   Print or Type)                              State


                                                                                  County
 (Signature)




 (Name/litle of Affiant   -   Print or Type)




(Date)

On   this_day of-                           20-        the above s¡gned officer
                                                                                           (Name of Affiant)

personally appeared and, known by me to be the person described in the foregoing Affidavit, acknowledged that (s)he
executed the same in the capacity stated therein and for the purposes therein contalned.

lN WITNESS WHEREOF, I hereunto set nry hand and seal




                                 (Notary Public Signature)




                                                                                             SEAL:

Commission Expires:




082013                                                                                                                Page 5 of 5




                                                                          57
                                                         RFP for lnformation Technology Assessment and Strategic Plan
                                                                                             Specification No. 680721


                                                 EXHIBIT 6

                         ONLINE CITY OF CHICAGO ECONOMIC DISCLOSURE
                          STATEMENT AND AFFTDAVTT (EDS) TNSTRUCTTONS


 WHEN SUBMTTÏNG YOUR RESPONSE TO TH|S REQUEST FOR PROPOSAL (RFp), FOR
 INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY ASSESSMENT AND STRATEGIC PLAN, SPECIFICATION NO.
 680721, THE RESPONDENT(S) SHALL SUBMIT 2 DOCUMENTS: 1) A "CERIIFICATE OF FlLlNc'
 EVIDENCING COMPLETION OF YOUR ONLTNE EDS AND 2) AN EXECUTED ATTACHMENT A.
 ONLINE EDS ACKNOWLEDGEMENT SIGNED BY AN AUTHORIZED OFFICER BEFORE A NOTARY.


I.   ONLINE EDS FILING


1.1.     ONLINE EDS FILING REQUIRED PRIOR TO RESPONSE DUE DATE

          The Respondent shall complete an online EDS prior to the response due date. A Respondent
         who does not file an electronic EDS prior to the response due date may be found non-responsive
         and its response rejected. lf you are unable to complete the online EDS and print a Certificate of
          Filing prior to the response due date, the City will accept a paper EDS provided written
         justification is provided explaining your good faith efforts to complete it before the response due
         date and the reasons why it could not be completed.

         NOTE: ALWAYS SELECT THE "CONTRACT" (NOT UPDATE) BOX WHEN COMPLETING AN
         ONLINE EDS TO ENSURE A NEW CONTRACT SPECIFIC ONLINE EDS IS CREATED
         RELATED TO THE SOL¡CITATION DOCUMENT. CLICKING THE UPDATE BOX ONLY
         UPDATES PREVIOUS EDS INFORMATION.

1.2.     ONLINE EDS WEB LINK

         The web link for the Online EDS is httos://webapps.cityofchicaqo.orq/EDSWeb

I.3.    ONLINE EDS NUMBER

        Upon completion of the online EDS submission process, the Respondentwill be provided an EDS
        number. Respondent should record this number here:

         EDS Number:

1.4.    ONLINE EDS CERTIFICATION OF FILING AND ATTACHMENT A, ONLINE EDS
        ACKNOWLEDGEMENT

        Upon completion of the online submission process, the Respondent will be able to print a hard
        copy Certificate of Filing. The Respondent should submit the signed Certificate of Filing and
        Attachment A, Online EDS Acknowledgement form with its response. Please insert your
        Certification of Filing and Attachment A, Online EDS Acknowledgement form following the Cover
        Letter. See Section V. 8.10, Required Contents of Proposal in the RFP. A Respondentwho does
        not include a signed Certificate of Filing and/or Attachment A, Online EDS Acknowledgement form
        with its response must provide it upon the request of the Chief Procurement Officer.

I.5.    PREPARATION CHECKLIST FOR REGISTRATION

        To expedite and ease your registration process, we recommend that you collect the following

                                                    58
                                                            RFP for lnformation Technology Assessment and Strategic Plan
                                                                                                Specification No. 680721


       information prior to registering for an Online EDS user account:

                     1.    lnvitation number, if you were provided an invitation number

                    2. EDS document from previous years, if available
                    3. Email address to correspond with the Online EDS system
                    4. Company lnformation
                       a. Legal Name
                       b. FEIN/SSN
                          c.     City of Chicago Vendor Number, if available.
                          d.     Address and phone number information that you would like to
                                 appear on your EDS documents.
                          e.     EDS Captain. Check for an EDS Captain in your company - this
                                 maybe the person that usually submits EDS for your company, or
                                 the first person that registers for your company.




1.6.   PREPARATION CHECKLIST FOR EDS SUBMISSION

       To expedite and ease your EDS submission, we recommend that you collect the following
       information prior to updating your EDS information online.

       Items #1 through        #7 are needed for both EDS information updates and contract related EDS
       documents:


                    1.    lnvitation number, if you were provided with an invitation number.

                    2.   Site address that is specific to this EDS.

                    3.   Contact that is responsible   for this EDS.

                    4.   EDS document from previous years, if available.

                    5.   Ownership structure, and if applicable, owners' company information

                         a.     % of ownership

                         b.     Legal Name

                         c.     FEIN/SSN

                         d.     City of Chicago Vendor Number, if available.

                         e.     Address

                 6.      List of Commissioners, officers, titleholders, etc. (if applicable).




                                                       59
                                                               RFP for lnformation Technology Assessment and Strategic Plan
                                                                                                   Specification No 680721


                     7.   For partnerships/LLC/LLP/Joint ventures, etc.

                          a.    List of controlling parties (if applicable).



        Items #8 and #9 are needed ONLY for contract related EDS documents:


                     8.   Contract related information (if applicable):

                          a.   City of Chicago contract package

                          b.   Cover page of City of Chicago bid/solicitation package

                          c.   lf EDS is related to a mod, then cover page of your current contract
                               with the City.

                     9.   List of subcontractors and retained parties:

                          a.    Name

                          b.    Address

                          c.    Fees   -   Estimated or paid



1.7.   EDS FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS

       Q:   Where do   lfile?
       A:   The web link for the Online EDS is https://webapps.citvofchicaoo.org/EDSWeb

       Q:   How do   lget help?
       A:   lf there is a question mark on a page or next to a field, click on the question mark for help
            filling out the page or field. You may also consult the User Manual and the Training Videos
            available on the left menu.

       Q: Why do I have to submit an EDS?
       A:   The Economic Disclosure Statement (EDS) is required of applicants making an application to
            the City for action requiring City Council, City department or other City agency approval. For
            example, all bidders seeking a City contract are required to submit an EDS. Through the
            EDS, applicants make disclosures required by State law and City ordinances and certify
            compliance with various laws and ordinances. An EDS is also required of certain parties
            related to the applicant, such as owners and controlling parties.

       Q: Who is the Applicant?
       A:   "Applicant" means any entity or person making an application to the City for action requiring
            City Council or other City agency approval. The applicant does not include owners and
            parent companies.


                                                         60
                                                   RFP for lnformation Technology Assessment and Strategic Plan
                                                                                       Specification No. 680721


 Q: Who is the Disclos¡ng Party?
 A:   "Disclosing Party" means any entity or person submitting an EDS. This includes owners and
      parent companies.

 Q: What is an entity or legal ent¡ty?
A:    "Entity' or 'Legal Entity" means a legal entity (for example, a corporation, partnership, joint
      venture, limited liability company or trust).

Q: What is a person for purposes of the EDS?
A:    "Person" means a human being.

Q: Who must submit an EDS?
A.    An EDS must be submitted in any of the following three circumstances:


                          An Applicant must always file this EDS. lf the Applicant is a legal
      Applicants          entity, state the full name of that legal entity. lf the Applicant is a
                          person acting on his/her own behalf, state his/her name.


      Entities            Whenever a legal entity has a beneficial interest (E. G. direct or
      holding an          indirect ownership) of more than 7.5o/o in the Applicant, each such
      interest:           legal entity must file an EDS on its own behalf.


                          Whenever a Disclosing Party is a general partnership, limited
                          partnership, limited liability company, limited liability partnership
                          or joint venture that has a general partner, managing member,
      Controlling         manager or other entity that can control the day{o-day
      entities:           management of the Disclosing Party, that entity must also file an
                          EDS on its own behalf. Each entity with a beneficial intêrest of
                          more than 7.5% in the controlling entity must also file an EDS on
                          its own behalf.




Q: What information is needed to submit an EDS?
A:   The information contained in the Preparation Checklist for EDS submission.

Q: ldon't   have a user lD & password. Can         lstill submit an Online     EDS?

A:   No. You must register and create a user lD and password before submitting an Online EDS.

Q: What information is needed to request a user lD & password for Online                  EDS?

A:   The information contained in the Preparation Checklist for Registration is needed to request a
     login for the Online EDS.

Q:   I already have a username and password from another City web site (City Web Portal,
     Department of Gonstruction and Permits, Department of Consumer Services, etc.). Can
     I log-in the Online EDS with that account?


                                              67
                                                   RFP for lnformation Technology Assessment and Strategic Plan
                                                                                       Specification No. 680721


A:    Usually not. The Online EDS uses a user lD and password system that is shared by the
      Public Vehicle Advertising and Water Payment web sites. You may use a username and
      password from those sites by answering "Yes" to "ls this an existing City of Chicago user lD?"
      when registering. Other usernames and passwords will not be automatically recognized.
      However, you may choose to create an identical username for the Online EDS if it is not
      already taken,

Q: ldon't have an email address.       How do lsubmit an Online EDS?

A:   You cannot get an account to submit an online EDS without an email address. lf you need an
     e-mail address, we suggest that you use              a free internet       email provider such         as
     www.hotmail.com or unvlv.yahoo.com or rnail.google.com to open an account. The City does
     not endorse any particular free internet email provider. Public computers are available at all
     Chicago Public Library branches.

Q: I forgot   my user lD. Can I register again?

A:   No. lf you are the EDS Captain of your organization, please contact the Department of
     Procurement Services at 312-744-4900. lf you are an EDS team member, contact your EDS
     Captain, who can look up your user lD.

Q: Who     is the EDS Captain?

A: The EDS Captain is a          person who performs certain administrative functions for an
     organization which files an EDS. Each organization registered with the Online EDS has at
     least one EDS Captain. There may be co-captains, who are all equal. EDS Captains approve
     new users, change contact information for an organization, and de-active accounts of
     employees who have left the organization. Please see the User Manual for more information.

Q: Why do we need EDS Captains?

A:   The Online EDS is designed to be a self-service web application which allows those doing or
     seeking to do business with the City to perform as many routine functions as possible without
     City intervention. Because many organizations have multiple staff filing an EDS, the EDS
     Captain role allows those organizations to self-manage the contact information and users.

Q: Who is the EDS team?
A:   The EDS team for an organization is everyone who is registered to file an EDS on behalf of
     the organization.

Q: lforgot    my password. What should I do?

A:   To retrieve a temporary password, click the "Forgot your password?" link on the login page.
     Enter your user lD that you provided when you registered your account. The system will
     automatically generate a temporary password and send it to you. When you log-in with your
     temporary password, you will be asked to create a new password.

Q:   How do I complete an Online EDS?

A:   Click on "Create New" after logging in. The Online EDS system willwalk you through the EDS
     questions. Please see the User Manual for details.

Q:   How do I fill out a Disclosure of Retained Parties?



                                              62
                                                  RFP for lnformation Technology Assessment and Strategic Plan
                                                                                      Specification No. 68072  "1




A:    There is no longer a separate Disclosure of Retained Parties filing. After logging in, click on
      "Create New". Answer (click) "Contract" to "ls this EDS for a contract or an EDS information
      update?" Click "Fill out EDS", and cl¡ck on the "Retained Parties" tab. When finished, click
      on "Ready to Submit."

Q:    How do lattach documents?

A: Attachments     are discouraged. lf at all possible, please provide a concise explanation in the
     space provided in the online form. Attachments with pages of officers are not acceptable.
     Names of officers must be typed into the system. lf you must provide an attachment for
     another reason, please send it to your City of Chicago contact (contract administrator or
     negotiator for procurements) and they will attach it for you. Documents can be sent in PDF
     (preferred), Word, or paper format.

Q: Who can complete        an Economic Disclosure Statement online?

A: Any authorized   representative of your business with a user lD and password can'complete
     your EDS online. One person, such as an assistant, can fill in the information and save it, and
     another person can review and electronically sign the Online EDS.

Q: What are the benefits of filing my Economic Disclosure statement electronically?
A:   Filing electronically reduces the chance of filing an incomplete EDS and speeds up the
     processing of contract awards. A certificate of filing can be printed at the completion of the
     process and inserted into your bid package. The biggest benefit for those who frequently do
     business with the City is that after the first EDS, each EDS is much easier to fill out because
     non-contract specific information is pre-filled from the last submitted EDS.

Q: Will my information     be secure?

A:   Yes. When making your internet connection to our Web Server, you will connect through a
     Secure Socket Layer (SSL for short) to the "Online EDS" login page. All information you type
     will be protected using strong encryption. Within the login page, you will provide us with a
     user lD, password, and secret question for user authentication, Only you will have knowledge
     of this unique identification information.

Q:   I am   filing electronically. How do lsign my EDS?

A:   Once you have completed the EDS, you will be prompted to enter your password and answer
     to your secret question. Together, these will serve as your electronic signature. Although you
     will also print and physically sign an EDS certification of filing as a notice that your EDS was
     filed, your EDS is complete as a legal document with only the electronic filing.

Q:   My address has changed. How can I update my information?

A:   You must be an EDS Captain for your organization to update this. Log-in and click on
     "Vendor Admin, Site Administration." Select the appropriate site and click edit.

Q:   I have more questions. How can I contact the Department of Procurement Services?

A:   Please contact the contract administrator or negotiator assigned            to your solicitation     or
     contract. You may call DPS at312-744-4900 between 8:30 AM and 5:00 PM CentralTime.

Q:   Gan lsave a partially complete EDS?



                                             63
                                                             RFP for Information Technology Assessment and Strateg¡c Plan
                                                                                                 Specification No. 680721


A:   Yes. Click "Save" To avoid data loss, we recommend you save your work periodically while
     filling out your EDS.

Q:   Do I have to re-type my information each time I submit an EDS?

A:   No. The system will remember non-contract specific information from your last submitted
     EDS for one year. This information will be filled-in for you in your new EDS. You will have an
     opportunity to correct it if it has changed since your last filing. When you submit your new
     EDS, the information is saved and the one-year clock begins running anew.

Q:   What are the system requirements to use the Online EDS?

A:   The following are minimum requirements to use the Online EDS

        A PDF viewer such as Adobe Reader is installed and your web browser is configured to
        display PDFs automatically. You may download and install Adobe Reader free at
        www. ad   o   be. com prod
                             I       u   cts/reade r/

        Your web browser is set to permit running of JavaScript.

        Your web browser allows cookies to be set for this site. Please note that while we use
        cookies in the Online EDS, we do not use them                             to track   personally identifiable
        information, so your privacy is maintained.

        Your monitor resolution is set to a minimum of 1024 x768

        While not required to submit an EDS, if you wish to view the training videos, you must
        have Adobe Flash Plugin version 9 or higher, speakers, and sound. Please note that very
        old computers may not be able to run Adobe Flash and will not be able to play the
        training videos. ln that case, we encourage you to seek help using the Online EDS
        Manuals.        You may download and install Adobe Flash Plugin free                                          at
        htty://get.adobe. com iflashplayer

The Online EDS has been tested on lnternet Explorer 6.0 and 7.0 and Firefox 2.0 and 3.0 on
Windows XIP and Mac OS X. Although it should work on other browsers and operating systems,
the City of Chicago cannot guarantee compatibility.




                                                        64
                                                        RFP for lnformation ïechnology Assessment and Strategic Plan
                                                                                            Specification No. 680721


                                               ATTACHMENT A

                              ONLINE EDS ACKNOWLEDGEMENT
 The undersigned, hereby acknowledges having received Specification No. 680721 containing a full set of
 RFP Documents, including, Addenda Numbers (none unless indicated                                            here)
                                   and affirms that the Respondent shall be bound by all the terms
and conditions contained in the RFP Documents, regardless of whether a complete set thereof is
attached to this response.

Under penalty of perjury, the undersigned: (1) warrants that he/she was authorized to submit an EDS on
behalf of the Disclosing Party on-line, (2) warrants that all certifications and statements contained in the
EDS are true, accurate and complete as of the date the EDS was submitted on-line, and (3) further
warrants that, as of the date of submission of this response, there have been no changes in
circumstances since the date that the EDS was submitted that would render any certification in the EDS
false, inaccurate or incomplete.

 Further, the undersigned being duly sworn deposes and says on oath that no disclosures of ownership
interests have been withheld and the information provided therein to the best of its knowledge is current
and the undersigned has not entered into any agreement with any other respondent or prospective
respondent or with any other person, firm or corporation relating to the price named in this proposal or
any other proposal, nor any agreement or arrangement under which any act or omission in restraining of
free competition among respondents and has not disclosed to any person, firm or corporation the terms of
this proposal or the price named herein.

COMPANY NAME
                                                 (Print or Type)




AUTHORIZED OFFICER SIGNATURE:




TITLE OF SIGNATORY:
                                                 (Print or Type)




BUSINESS ADDRESS
                                                 (Print or Type)


State of                                                 (Affix Corporate Seal)
County of
This instrument was acknowledged before me on this    _    day of                                     20        by
                                       as President (or other authorized                         officer)     and
                               as Secretary of                          (Company Name)

Notary Public Signature                                            (Seal)


                                                   65
                                                 RFP for lnformation Technology Assessment and Strategic Plan
                                                                                     Specification No. 680721




                                         EXHIBIT 7

           CONTRACT INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS AND INSURANCE CERTIFICATE
                         Department of lnnovation and Technology
              lnformation Technology Assessment and Strategic Plan


A.     INSURANCE REQU¡RED

Contractor must provide and maintain at Contractor's own expense, during the term of
the Agreement and during the time period following expiration if Contractor is required
to return and perform any work, serv¡ces or operations, the insurance coverages and
requirements specified below, insuring all work, services, or operations related to the
Agreement.

1)                      nsation and E          rs Liabil (Primary and Umbrella)
      Workers Compensation lnsurance, as prescribed by applicable law covering all
      employees who are to provide work, services or operations under this Agreement
      and Employers Liability coverage with limits of not less than $500.000 each
      accident; $500,000 disease-policy limit; and $500,000 disease each employee,
      or the full per occurrence limits of the policy, whichever is greater.

      Contractor may use a combination of primary and excess/umbrella policy/policies
      to satisfy the limits of liability required herein. The excess/umbrella
      policy/policies must provide the same coverages/follow form as the underlying
      policy/policies.

2)      ommercial General Liabil     (Primary and Umbrella)
      Commercial General Liability lnsurance or equivalent must be maintained with
      limits of not less than 1 000 000 per occurrence, or the full per occurrence limits
      of the policy, whichever is greater, for bodily injury, personal injury, and property
      damage liabílity. Coverages must include but not be limited to the following: All
      premises and operations, products/completed operations, separation of insureds,
      defense, and contractual liability (not to include Endorsement CG 21 39 or
      equivalent).

      The City and other entities as required by City must be provided additional
      insured status with respect to liability arising out of Contractor's work, services or
      operations performed on behalf of the City. The City's additional insured status
      must apply to liability and defense of suits arising out of Contractor's acts or
      omissions, whether such liability is attributable to the Contractor or to the City on
      an additional insured endorsement form acceptable to the City. The full policy
      limits and scope of protection also will apply to the City as an additional insured,
      even if they exceed the City's minimum limits required herein. Contractor's

                                            66
                                               RFP for lnformation Technology Assessment and Strategic Plan
                                                                                   Specification No 680721


     liability insurance must be primary without right of contribution by any other
     insurance or self-insurance maintained by or available to the City.

     Contractor may use a combination of primary and excess/umbrella policy/policies
     to satisfy the limits of liability required herein. The excess/umbrella
     policy/policies must provide the same coverages/follow form as the underlying
     policy/policies.

3)   Automobile Liability (Primary and Umbrella)
     When any motor vehicles (owned, non-owned and hired) are used in connection
     with work, services, or operations to be performed, Automobile Liability lnsurance
     must be maintained by the Contractor with limits of not less than $1,000,000 per
     occurrence or the full per occurrence limits of the policy, whichever is greater, for
     bodily injury and property damage. The City is to be added as an additional
     insureds on a primary, non-contributory basis.

     Contractor may use a combination of primary and excess/umbrella policy/policies
     to satisfy the limits of liability required herein. The excess/umbrella
     policy/policies must provide the same coverages/follow form as the underlying
     policy/policies.

4)   Excess/Umbrella
     Excess/Umbrella Liability lnsurance must be maintained with limits of not less
     than $1,000.000 per occurrence, or the full per occurrence limits of the policy,
     whichever is greater. The policy/policies must provide the same coverages/follow
     form as the underlying Commercial General Liability, Automobile Liability,
     Employers Líability and Completed Operations coverage required herein and
     expressly provide that the excess or umbrella policy/policies will drop down over
     reduced and/or exhausted aggregate limit, if any, of the underlying insurance.
     The Excess/Umbrella policy/policies must be prímary without right of contribution
     by any other insurance or self-insurance maintained by or available to the City.

     Contractor may use a combination of primary and excess/umbrella policies to
     satisfy the limits of liability required in sections A.1, A.2, A.3 and 4.4 herein.

5)   Professional Liabilitv
     When any professional consultants including any program/project managernent
     professionals perform work, services, or operations in connection with this
     Agreement, Professional Liability lnsurance covering acts, errors, or omissions
     must be maintained with limits of not less than $2,000.000. When policies are
     renewed or replaced, the policy retroactive date must coincide with, or precede
     start of work on the Agreement. A claims-made policy which is not renewed or
     replaced must have an extended reporting period of two (2) years.

6)   Propertv




                                          67
                                                  RFP for lnformation Technology Assessment and Strategic Plan
                                                                                      Specification No 680721


       Consultant is responsible for all loss or damage to personal property (including but not
       limited to materials, equipment, tools and suppl¡es) owned, rented, or used by
       Consultant.


 B.    Additional Requirements

  Evidence of lnsurance      Contractor must furnish the City, Chicago Department of
 Procurement Services, 121 N. LaSalle Street, Room 806, Chicago, lL 60602 and to
 Department of lnnovat¡on & Technology, 333 S. State Street, Room LL30, Chicago, lL.
 60604 original certificates of insurance and additional insured endorsement, or other
 evídence of insurance, to be in force on the date of this Agreement, and renewal
 certificates of lnsurance and endorsement, or such similar evidence, if the coverages
 have an expiration or renewal date occurring during the term of this Agreement.
 Contractor must submit evidence of insurance prior to execution of Agreement. The
 receipt of any certificate does not constitute agreement by the City that the insurance
 requirements in the Agreement have been fully met or that the insurance policies
 indicated on the certificate are in compliance with all requirements of Agreement. The
failure of the City to obtain, nor the City's receipt of, or failure to object to a non-
complying insurance certificate, endorsement or other insurance evidence from
Contractor, its insurance broker(s) and/or insurer(s) will not be construed as a waiver by
the City of any of the required ínsurance provisions. Contractor must advise all insurers
of the Agreement provisions regarding insurance. The City in no way warrants that the
ínsurance required herein is sufficient to protect Contractor for liabilities which may arise
from or relate to the Agreement. The City reserves the right to obtain complete, certified
copies of any required insurance policies at any time.

Failure to Maintain lnsurance Failure of the Contractor to comply with required
coverage and terms and conditions outlined herein will not limit Contractor's liability or
responsibility nor does it relieve Contractor of the obligation to provide insurance as
specified in this Agreement. Nonfulfillment of the insurance conditions may constitute a
violation of the Agreement, and the City retains the right to suspend this Agreement until
proper evidence of insurance is provided, or the Agreement may be terminated.

Notice of Material Chanqe, Cancellation or Non-Renewal Contractor must provide for
sixty (60) days prior written notice to be given to the City in the event coverage is
substantially changed, canceled or non-renewed and ten (10) days prior written notice
for non-payment of premium.

Deductibles and Self-lnsured Retentions. Any deductibles or self-insured retentions on
referenced insurance coverages must be borne by Contractor.

Waiver of Subroqation. Contractor hereby waives its rights and its insurer(s)' rights of
and agrees to require their insurers to waive their rights of subrogation against the City
under all required insurance herein for any loss arising from or relating to this
Agreement. Contractor agrees to obtain any endorsement that may be necessary to
affect this waiver of subrogation, but this provision applies regardless of whether or not

                                             68
                                                   RFP for lnformation Technology Assessment and Strategic Plan
                                                                                       Specification No 680721


 the City received a waiver of subrogation endorsement for Contractor's insurer(s)

 Contractors lnsurance Primary. All insurance required of Contractor under this
 Agreement shall be endorsed to state that Contractor's insurance policy is primary and
 not contributory with any insurance carrier by the City.

 No Limitation as to Contractor's Liabilities. The cove rages and limits furnished by
Contractor in no way limit the Contractor's liabilities and responsibilities specified within
the Agreement or by law.

No Contribution bv Citv Any insurance or self-insurance programs maintained by the
City do not contribute with insurance provided by Contractor under this Agreement.

lnsurance not Limited bv lndemnification. The required insurance to be carried is not
limited by any limitations expressed in the indemnification language in this Agreement
or any limitation placed on the indemnity in this Agreement given as a matter of law.

lnsurance and Lim its Maintained lf Contractor maintains higher limits and/or broader
coverage than the minimums shown herein, the City requires and shall be entitled the
higher limits and/or broader coverage maintained by Contractor. Any available
insurance proceeds in excess of the specified minimum limits                        of insurance and
coverage shall be available to the City.

Joint Venture or Limited Liability Companv. lf Contractor is a joint venture or limited
líability company, the insurance policies must name the joint venture or limited liability
company as a named insured.

Other lnsurance obtained bv Contractor. lf Contractor desires additional coverages, the
Contractor will be responsible for the acquisition and cost,

lnsurance reoui     of Subcontractors      Contractor shall name the Subcontractor(s) as a
named insured(s) under Contractor's insurance or Contractor will require each
Subcontractor(s) to provide and maintain Commercial General Liability, Commercial
Automobile Liability, Worker's Compensation and Employers Liability lnsurance and
when applicable Excess/Umbrella Liability lnsurance with coverage at least as broad as
in outlined in Section A, lnsurance Required. The limits of coverage will be determined
by Contractor, Contractor shall determine if Subcontractor(s) must also provide any
additional coverage or other coverage outlined in Section A, lnsurance Required.
Contractor is responsible for ensuring that each Subcontractor has named the City as
an additional insured where required on an additional insured endorsement form
acceptable to the City. Contractor is also responsible for ensuring that each
Subcontractor has complied with the required coverage and terms and conditions
outlined in this Section B, Additional Requirements. When requested by the City,
Contractor must provide to the City certificates of insurance and additional insured
endorsements or other evidence of insurance. The City reserves the right to obtain
complete, certified copies of any required insurance policies at any time. Failure of the


                                              69
                                                RFP for lnformation Technology Assessment and Strategic Plan
                                                                                    Specification No. 680721


Subcontractor(s) to comply with required coverage and terms and conditions outlined
herein will not limit Contractor's liability or responsibility.

Citv's Rioh t to Modifv . Notwithstanding any provisions in the Agreement to the contrary,
the City, Department of Finance, Risk Management Office ma¡ntains the right to modify,
delete, alter or change these requirements.




                                           70
                                                                      RFP for lnformation Technology Assessment and Strategic Plan
                                                                                                          Specification No. 680721




                                                          EXHIBIT 8

                                 CONTRACTUAL REQUIREMENTS RELATED TO HIPAA


 The terms below that are capitalized and in bold have the same meanings as set forth in the Health lnsurance Portability
 and Accountability Act. See 45 CFR parts 160 and 164.

 t.      Contractor must not use or further disclose Protected Health lnformation ("PHl") other than as permitted or
         required by this Agreement or as Required by Law. (http://www.hhs.govlocr/hipaa/)

 2.      Contractor must use appropriate safeguards to prevent the use or disclosure of PHI other than as provided for in
         this Agreement.

 3.      Contractor must m¡t¡gate to the extent practicable any harmful effect that is known to Contractor of a use or
         disclosure of PHI by Contractor in violation of the requirements of this Agreement.

4.       Contractor must report any use or disclosure of the PHI not provided for by this Agreement to the City.
5.       Contractor must ensure that any agent, including a subcontractor, to whom it provides PHI received from, or
         created or received by Contractor on behalf of the City agrees to the same restrictions and conditions that apply
         through this Agreement to Contractor with respect to such information.

6.       lf the Contractor has PHI in a Designated Record Set then Contractor must provide access, at the request of the
         City, and in the time and manner designated by the City, to PHI in a Designated Record Set, to City or, as directed
         by City, to an lndividual in order to meet the requirements under 45 CFR !64.524.

7.       lftheContractorhasPHl inaDesignatedRecordSetthenContractormustmakeany amendmentstoPHl ina
         Designated Record Set that the City directs or agrees to pursuant to 45 CFR 164.526 at the request of City or an
         lndividual, and in the time and manner designated by City.

8.       Contractor must make internal practices, books and records relating to the use and disclosure of PHI received
         from, or created or received by Contractor on behalf of, City available to the City, or at the request of the City to
         the Secretary, in a time and manner designated by the City or the Secretary,for purposes of the Secretary
         determining City's compliance with the Privacy Rule.

9.       Contractor must document the disclosure of PHI and information relating to such disclosures as would be
         required for City to respond to a request by an lndividual for an accounting of disclosures of PHI in accordance
        with 45   CFR 164.528.

L0.     Contractor must provide to City or an lndividual, in time and manner designated by City, information'collected
        which relates to the disclosure of PHl, to permit City to respond to a request by an lndividual for an accounting
        of disclosures of PHI in accordance with 45 CFR 164.528.

IL.     Contractor must either return all PHI to the City or destroy it, at the City's option, upon termination or expiration
        of th¡s Agreement.

t2.     Contractor must implement administrative, physical, and technical safeguards that reasonably and appropriately
        protect the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of the electronic health information that it creates, receives,
        maintains, or transmits on behalf of the City as required by 45 CFR part 164.

13.     Contractor must ensure that any agent, including a subcontractor, to whom it provides such information agrees
        to implement reasonable and appropriate safeguards to protect it.
14.     Contractor must report to the City any security incident of which it becomes aware.




                                                          77
                                                                        RFP for lnformation Technology Assessment and Strategic Plan
                                                                                                            Specification No. 680721




                                                       EXHIBIT 10

             tOCAt AND OTHER PREFERENCES: ADJUSTMENTS TO THE COST PROPOSAL AND AFFIDAVITS

A.    City-based Businesses (Chicago Business Preference)
      For purposes of this section only, the following definitions shall apply:

     "City-based business" means a person who (i) conducts meaningful day-to-day business operations at a facility
     located within the city and reports such facility to the lnternal Revenue Service as a place of employment for the
     majority of its regular, full-time workforce; (ii) holds any appropriate city license; and (iii) is subject to applicable
     city taxes.
     "Contract" means any contract, purchase order or agreement awarded by the city and whose cost is to be paid
     from funds belonging to or administered by the city; provided that a contract does not include: (i) a delegate
     agency contract; (ii) a lease of real property; or (iii) a collective bargaining agreement.

     "Prime Contractor" means a person who is a city- based business and the primary contractor on a contract. A
     "Príme Contractor" does not include any subcontractors.
     lf these RFP Documents pertain to a Contract having an estimated contract value of $t00,000 or more, the               CPO
     may apply a bid preference ("City Based Business Preference")of two percent of the cost proposal, in
     accordance with section 2-92-412 of the MCC, to any qualified Respondent that is a prime contractor.

     Respondents desiring to take advantage of the City Based Business Preference must submit documentation with
     their Proposalthat Respondent is a City-Based Business:a "City-Based BusinessAff¡davit" and a copyof any
     Chicago business license(s) if applicable.

B.   Alternatively Powered Vehicles Proposal lncentive
 i.    Definitions for Alternatively Powered Vehicles Bid lncentive
       For purposes of this Section B only, the following definitions apply:

       "Alternative fuel" has the meaning ascribed to that term in the Energy Policy Act of 1992, and the rules
       promulgated by the United States Department of Energy pursuant to that Act. The term "alternative fuel"
       includes but is not limited to natural gas, liquefied petroleum gas, hydrogen, ethanol E85 or electricity;
       "Alternatively powered vehicle" means a vehicle that:
       (a)    is fueled by alternative fuel; provided that if a vehicle is capable of being powered by alternative fuel
       and traditional petroleum-based gasoline or petroleum-based diesel fuel, the vehicle must be powered by the
       alternative fuel for no less than 80% BTUs consumed during the three months prior to the submission of the
       bid; or
       (b)   is commonly referred to as a hybrid vehicle that is capable of being powered by a combination of any
       fuel and an alternative power source and the alternative power source includes an energy storage system to
       store generated or accumulated energy which substantially reduces the fuel use and emissions when
       compared to a standard vehicle of the same age, type and size; or
       (c)  is fueled by a biodiesel blend; provided that the vehicle is powered by the biodiesel blend for no less
      than 80% of the gallons consumed during the three months prior to the submission of the bid; or
       (d)   is fueled by traditional petroleum-based gasoline or petroleum-based diesel fuel, but powered by an
      engine substantially more efficiently designed than a standard vehicle of the same age, type and size; provided
      that the vehicle is rated by the United States Environmental Protection Agency in the top 5%for fuelefficiency
      for similar vehicles.




                                                  73
                                                        RFP for lnformation Technology Assessment and Strategic Plan
                                                                                            Specification No 680721


 An "alternatively powered vehicle" does not include any vehicle which is: (i) primarily used in a
 warehouse or s¡m¡lar type of enclosed structure; (ií) required to use, or given credit for using,
 alternative fuel by any federal, state or local law; or (iii) subject to Section 2-92-595 of the Municipal
 Code of Chicago.

 "Biodiesel blend" has the meaning ascribed to that term in Section 2-92-595 of the Municipal Code of
 Chicago.

 "Construction project" has the meaning ascribed to that term in Section 2-92-335 of the Municipal
 Code of Chicago.

 "Contract" means any contract, purchase order, construction project, or other agreement (other than
 a delegate agency contract or lease of real property or collective bargaining agreement) awarded by
 the city and whose cost is to be paid from funds belonging to or administered by the city.
 "Contract cost proposal" means the total dollar amount a Respondent proposes as its cost proposal on
 an RFP without factoring any incentive or preference.

"Eligible business" means a business located within the counties of Cook, DuPage, Kane, Lake,
McHenry or Will in the State of lllinois (the "Six County Region"), and as to which: (1) a majority of the
business' fleet is located and used within the Six County Region; and (2) a majority of those vehicles
located and used within the Six County Region are alternatively powered vehicles.
"Fleet" means 10 or more vehicles that are owned, operated, leased or otherwise controlled by              a
business.

"Proposal lncentive" means an amount deducted, for proposal evaluation purposes only, from the
Respondent's cost proposal in orderto calculate the cost or price to be used to evaluate the proposal.

"Vehicle" means every device powered by a motor or engine and by, upon, or in which any person or
property is or may be transported or drawn upon a street or highway, except a "vehicle" shall not
include motorized wheelchairs, golf carts, neighborhood electric vehicles, as that term is defined in
Section 9-4-O1O of the MunicipalCode of Chicago, devices moved solely by human power, devices
used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks, or snowmobiles, as defined in the Snowmobile
Registration and Safety Act of lllinois.
Eligibility for Alternatively Powered Vehicles Proposal lncentive
lf these RFP Documents pertain to a Contract having an estimated contract value of S10O,0OO or more,
the CPO may apply a proposal incentive of 712% to the contract cost proposal of a qualified
respondent when the qualified respondent is an eligible business.
The incentive is used only to calculate an amount to be used in evaluating the price, and it will not
affect the price of any contract that may ultimately be awarded.
For purposes of this section the total dollar value of a construction project contract includes both
materials and labor.
(b)   As a condition of being awarded a contract after claiming this incentive, the eligible business
shall continue to meet the definition of an eligible business during the term of the contract.
(c) The contractor shall maintain adequate records necessary to monitor compliance with this section
and shall submit such reports as required by the chief procurement officer. Full access to the
contractor's and subcontractors' records shall be granted to the chief procurement officer, the
commissioner of the supervising department, the inspector general, or any duly authorized
representative thereof. The contractor and subcontractors shall maintain all relevant records for           a
period of no less than seven years after final acceptance of the work.


                                               74
                                                                   RFP for lnformation Technology Assessment and Strategic Plan
                                                                                                       Specification No. 680721


            (d) A Respondent desiring to rece¡ve an incentive pursuant to this section shall include with its bid
            submíssíon the Affidavit of Eligible Business for Proposal lncentive for Alternative Powered Vehicles,
            which affirms that the Respondent satísf¡es all pertinent requirements as an eligible business.
            (e)   Upon completion of the work, any eligible business that receives a preference but that fails to
            meet the definition as an eligible business during the term of the contract shall be fined in an amount
            equal to three times the amount of the incentive.
            (f)  This section shall not apply to any contract to the extent that the requirements imposed by this
           section are inconsistent with procedures or standards required by any law or regulation of the United
           States or the State of lllinois to the extent such inconsistency is not permitted under law or the home
           rule powers of the city.
     C.   Veteran-Owned Small Local Business Enterprises and Eligible Joint Ventures

 For purposes of this section only, the following definitions shall apply:

"Bid incentive" means an amount deducted, for bid evaluation purposes only, from the contract base bid               in
orderto calculate the bid price to be used to evaluate the bid on a competitively bid contract.

"Contract base bid" means the total dollar amount a contractor bids on a contract without factoring any bid
incentive or percentage reductions to the bid amount.

"Eligible joint venture" means an association of one or more small business enterprises in combination with one
or more veteran-owned business enterprises, proposing to perform as a single for-profit business enterprise, in
which each joint venture partner contributes property, capital, efforts, skill and knowledge. Joint ventures must
have an agreement in writing specifying the terms and conditions of the relationship between the partners and
their respective roles in the contract.

"Owned" means, as MCC 2-92-670 may be updated from time to time, having allof the customary incidents of
ownership, includingthe right of disposition, and sharing in allof the risks, responsibilities and profits
commensurate with the degree of ownership.

"Small business enterprise" means, as MCC 2-92-670 may be updated from time to time, a smallbusiness as
defined by the U.S. Small Business Administration, pursuant to the business size standards found in 13 C.F.R.
Part L27, relevant to the scope(s) of work the firm seeks to perform on city contracts. A firm is not an eligible
small business enterprise in any city fiscal year in which its gross receipts, averaged over the firm's previous five
fiscal years, exceed the size standards of 13 C.F.R. Part'J.2I.

"Veteran-owned business enterprise" means an enterprise which: (1) is at least 5L percent owned by one or
more veterans, or in the case of a publicly held corporation, at least 5L percent of all classes of the stock of
which is owned by one or more veterans, whose management, policies, major decisions and daily business
operations are independently managed and controlled by one or more veterans; or (2) has been certified by the
State of lllinois as a qualified service-disabled veteran-owned small business or a qualified veteran-owned small
business pursuant to 30 ILCS 500/45-57.

"Veteran-owned small local business" means a business that is both a veteran-owned business enterprise and                a
small local business enterprise as defined in Section 2-92-670.

"Veteran" means a person who has served in the United States armed forces and was discharged or separated
under honorable conditions.

                                                         75
                                                                  RFP for lnformation Technology Assessment and Strategic Plan
                                                                                                      Specification No. 680721


Unless otherwise prohib¡ted by any federal, state or local law, the CPO shall allocate a bid incentive of 5% of the
contract base price, in accordance with section 2-92-41,8 of the MCC, to any qualif¡ed bidderthat is a veteran-
owned small local business or an eligible joint venture.

Bidders desiríng to receíve this incentive must submít an affidavit and other supporting documents
demonstrating that the bidder satisfies all pertinent requirements as a veteran-owned small local business or an
eligible joint venture.

As a condition of being awarded the bid incentive, the veteran-owned small local business or eligible    joint
venture shall continue to meet the definition of a veteran-owned small local business or an eligible   joint
venture. lf a contract is awarded to the veteran-owned small local business or eligible joint venture, upon
completion of the work, any veteran-owned small local business or eligible joint venture that receives a bid
preference but fails to meet the definition of a veteran-owned small local business or eligible joint venture
during the term of the contract for which the bid incentive was awarded shall be fined in an amount equal to
three times the amount of the bid incentive awarded.

The contractor shall maintain adequate records necessary to ensure compliance with this section and shall
submit such reports as required by the chief procurement officer. Full access to the contractor's and
subcontractors' records shall be granted to the chief procurement officer, the commissioner of the supervising
department, the inspectorgeneral, or any duly authorized representative thereof. The contractor and
subcontractor shall maintain all relevant records a period that is the longer of seven years or as after final
acceptance of the work in accordance with the Local Records Act.



   D.    Commitment Regarding Business Enterprises Owned By People With Disabilities (BEPD)

   i.    Policy and Terms
         It is the policy of the City that  businesses certified as Business Enterprises owned by People with
         Disabilities (BEPD)   in accordance with MCC 2-92-337 et seq., Regulotions Governing Certificotion of
         Business Enterprises owned by People with Disabilities, and all other Regulations promulgated under the
         aforementioned sections of the Municipal Code; shall have the full and fair opportunities to participate
         fully in the performance of this Contract. Therefore, the Bidder or Contractor shall not discriminate
         against any person or business on the basis of disability, and shall take affirmative actions to ensure
         BEPDs shall have full and fair opportunities to compete for and perform subcontracts for supplies or
         services.

         Failure to carry out the commitments and policies set forth herein shall constitute a material breach of
         the Contract and may result in the termination of the Contract or such remedy as the City deems
         appropriate.


   ¡¡.   Definitions
         For purposes of this section only, the following definitions apply:
         (A)     "Business Enterprises owned or operated by People with Disabilities" or "BEPD" has the same
                 meaning ascribed to it in section 2-92-586.
         (B)     "Bid incentive" means an amount deducted, for bid evaluation purposes only, from the contract
                 base bid in order to calculate the bid price to be used to evaluate the bid on a competitively bid
                 contract.


                                                         76
                                                            RFP for lnformation Technology Assessment and Strategic Plan
                                                                                                Specification No 68072'1


   (c)       "Contract base bid" means the total dollar amount a contractor bids on a contract without
             factoring any bid incentive or percentage reductions to the bid amount.


iii. Commitments
   Where not otherwise prohib¡ted by federal, state, or local law, the CPO shall allocate to any qualified
   bidder the following bid incentive for utilization of a BEPD as a prime contractor or subcontractor in the
   performance of the contract.



            % of tota! dollar contract amount         Bid incentive
            performed by BEPD
            2to    5%                                 1%   ofthe contract base bid
            6to9%                                     2% of the contract base bid

            LOto L3%                                  3%   ofthe contract base bid
            t4%o   or more                            4%of the contract base bid


  The bid incentive shall be calculated and applied in accordance with the provisions of this section. The
  bid incentive is used only to calculate an amount to be used in evaluating the bid. The bid incentive
  does not affect the contract price.
  Upon completion of the work, any Contractor that has failed to retain the percentage of BEPD
  subcontractors for which a bid incentive was taken into consideration in awarding of a contract shall be
  fined an amount equal to three times the amount of the bid incentive allocated, unless the Contractor
  can demonstrate that due to circumstances beyond the Contractor's control, the Contractor for good
  cause was unable to retain the percentage of BEPD participants throughout the duration of the contract
  period.


  iv.    Records and Reports
  The Contractor shall maintain accurate and detailed books and records necessary to monitor compliance
  with this section and shall submit such reports as required by the          CPO,   or the commissioner of the
  supervising depa rtment.
  Full access to the Contractor's and Subcontractor's records shall be granted to the CPO, the
  commissioner of the supervising department, or any duly authorized representative thereof. The
  Contractor and Subcontractors shall maintain all relevant records for a period of at least three years
  after final acceptance of the work.




                                                 77
                                                                            RFP for lnformation Technology Assessment and Strategic Plan
                                                                                                                Specification No. 680721


                                               CITY-BASED BUSINESS AFFIDAVIT

 The City-Based Business preference of 2o/o is applicable to Contracts funded in whole by City funds. Respondent must
 complete this form, and provide a copy of its Chicago business license(s) if applicable, if it desires to be considered for this
 preference. Respondents that do not complete this page will not be regarded as City-Based Businesses. lf Respondent's
 operations are at multiple locations in the City of Chicago, use additional sheets if necessary..

 1.         ls Respondent a "City-Based Business" as defined in the "Local and Other Preferences" portion of this solicitation
            and in MCC 2-92-412?
            (   )Yes           (   )No

2.          Does the Respondent report to the lnternal Revenue Service that the place of employment for the majority (more than
            50%) of its regular, full{ime workforce is a facility within the City of Chicago?
            ( )Yes             (   )No

3           Does the Respondent conduct meaningful day{o-day business operations at a facility within the City of Chicago?

            ( )Yes             (   )No

4.          Street address of business location within the City of Chicago (P.O. address not accepted)



5.          Describe the business activities are carried out at the location listed above:



6.          How many full{ime regular employees are currently employed at the location listed above?

7.          Total number of full{ime regular employees employed at all locations worldwide?

8.          List City of Chicago business license(s) held; attach copies. lf none are required, indicate "none required":



Respondent understands that it may be required to produce records to the Chief Procurement Officer to verify the information
provided.

Under penalty of perjury the person signing below: (1) warrants that he/she is authorized to execute this Affidavit on behalf of
Respondent, and (2) warrants that all certifications and statements contained in this Affidavit are true, accurate, and complete
as ofthe date of execution.

Name of Respondent:
                                                                                                           (Print or Type)
Signature of Authorized Officer:
                                                                                                               (Signature)
Title of Signatory:
                                                                                                           (Print or Type)
State of

County of

Signed and sworn (or affirmed) to before me on                      (date) by                         (name/s of person/s making
statement),

                              (Signature of Notary Public)                             (Seal)




                                                                  78
                                                                           RFP for Information Technology Assessment and Strategic Plan
                                                                                                               Specification No 680721


                     INCENTIVE FOR ALTERNATIVELY POWERED VEHICLES AFFIDAVIT
 An Eligible Business incentive for alternatively powered vehicles may be applicable. Respondent must complete this form if it
 desires to be considered for this incentive. Respondents who do not complete and submit this form with their proposals will be
 deemed to be non-Eligible Businesses.

 1.          ls Respondent a business located within the counties of Cook, DuPage, Kane, Lake, McHenry or Will in the State of
 lllinois (the "Six County Region")? ( ) Yes                      ( ) No
 2.         Street address of principal place of business



3.        How many total vehicles, as defined in the Local and Other Preferences section of this solicitation, "lncentive for
Alternatively Powered Vehicles," are currently owned, operated, leased or othenryise controlled by respondent?

                                                                                                          Line 3(a);
4           How many of respondent's vehicles are located and used within the Six County Region?

                                                                                      Line 4(a): number of vehicles


                                                  Line 4(b): percentage of fleet (line 4(a) divided by line 3(a))                 ot


5.        How many of respondent's vehicles located and used within the Six County Region are alternatively powered
vehicles, as defined in the Local and Other Preferences section of this solicitation, "lncentive for Alternatively Powered
Vehicles?

                                                                                      Line 5(a): number of vehicles
                                       Line 5(b): percentage of Six County fleet (line 5(a) divided by line 4(a))                      ot

Respondent understands that it may be required to produce records to the chief procurement officer to verify the information
provided.

Under penalty of perjury the person signing below: (1) warrants that he/she is authorized to execute this Affìdavit on behalf of
bidder, and (2) warrants that all certifications and statements contained in this Affidavit are true, accurate, and complete as of
the date of execution.

Name of Respondent:
                                (Print or Type)

Signature of Authorized Officer:
                                (Signature)

Title of Signatory
                               (Print or ïype)



State of
County of
Signed and sworn (or affirmed) to before me on                      (date) by
                     (name/s of person/s making statement)

(Signature of Notary Public)
(Seal)




                                                                 79
                                                                                     RFP for lnformation Technology Assessment and Strategic Plan
                                                                                                                         Specification No 680721


                            VETERAN.OWNED SMALL LOCAL BUSINESS ENTERPRISE AND
                                     ELIGIBLE JOINT VENTURE AFFIDAVIT

 Bidder must complete this l'orm if it desires to be considered for the bid incentive as described in Section 2-92-418 of the Municipal Code
 ol'Chicago ("MCC') lor Veteran-Owned Small Local Businesses and Eligible Joint Ventures. Bidders that do not complete this page will
 not be regarded as veteran-owned small local businesses or eligiblejoint ventures. Please use additional sheets ifnecessary. Attach all
 relevant certilÌcations and/or support documents.
 l,          Is bidder a "veteran-owned small local business" as defined in E,xhibit l0C of this bid solicitation and in MCC 2-92-418?
            (   )   Yes           (    )   No          If Yes, skip   to #5 below.
 2.         Is bidder an "eligible joint venture" as defined in Exhibit l0C of this bid solicitation and in MCC 2-92-418?
            ( )Yes                (    )No
 3.         Is at least one member of the eligible joint venture a "small business enterprise" as defined in MCC 2-92-670?
            ( )Yes               (    )No
4.          Is at least one member    ofthe eligiblejo¡nt venture   a "veteran-owned business enterprise" as that term is defined in

            MCC2-92-670?
            ( )Yes               (    )No
5.                                                        #l or #4 above certified by the State of Illinois as a qualifìed service-disabled
            Is the veteran-owned business identified in either
veteran-owned small business or a qualified veteran-owned small business pursuant to 30 ILCS 500145-57? Ifyes, please provide
appropriate documentation.
            ( )Yes               (    )No
6.          Iftheanswer to # 5 above is no, is the veteran-owned business an enterprise which is at least 5l percent owned by one or more
veterans, or in the case ofa publicly held corporation, at least 5l percent ofall classes ofstock ofwhich are owned by one or more
veterans?
            ( )Yes               (    )No
7.          Ifqualifying                                                  of#6 above, please list all owners, their percentage of
                           as a veteran-owned business under the requirements
ownership interest, and provide appropriate documentation demonstrating status as veteran, as that term is deflrned in MCC 2-92-418.




8.          List City ofChicago business license(s) held. Ifnone are required, indicate "none required"


9.          Provide address ofthe veteran-owned business, including the County in which it is located.




                                                                                                                                       County:




Bidder understands that it may be required to produce records to the chiefprocurement officer to verify the information provided.
Under penalty ofperjury the person signing below: (l) warrants that he/she is authorized to execute this Affidavit on behalfofbidder, and
(2) warrants that all certifications and statements contained in this Affidavit are true, accurate, and complete as of the date of execution.



Bidder m¿sl complele lhe applìcable signalure line(s) on thefollowíng page.




                                                                          80
                                                                                            RFP for lnformation Technology Assessment and Strategic Plan
                                                                                                                                Specification No. 680721

 Req u i red S ig nat u re   fo r   A   ll   A pp   l¡cants

 Name of Veteran-Owned Business:

                                                              (Print or Type)

 Signature of Authorized Offìcer for Veteran-Owned Business
                                                                                                                                 (Signature)

 Title of Signatory:

                         (Print or Type)




Addílional Required Signatures for Elìgíble Joint Venture Applícønts

Name of Joint Venture (for eligible joint ventures only):

                                                                       (Print or Type)

Name of SBE (for eligible joint ventures only)

                                                              (Print or Type)

Signature of Authorized Officer for SBE (for eligible joint ventures only):
                                                                                                                                (Signature)

Title of Signatory

                                                (Print or Type)




State    of

County        of

Signed and sworn (or affirmed) to before me on                                  (date) by

                             (name/s of person/s making statement).




(Signature of Notary Public)

(Seal)




                                                                                   81
                                                                          RFP for lnformation Technology Assessment and Strategic Plan
                                                                                                              Specification No. 680721




 BIDDER'S COMMITMENT TO UTTLTZE BUSTNESS ENTERPRTSES OWNED BY PEOPLE W|TH DTSAB|LtTtES (BEpD)
 The BEPD lncentive as described in Section 2-92-337 of the Municipal Code of Chicago ("MCC") is applicable to
 competitively bid contracts funded in whole by City funds. Bidder must submit this form with the bid if ¡t desires to be
 considered for this bid incentive. Bidders that do not submit this page with their bid will not be eligible for this bid
 incentive. Attach additional sheets if necessary.
 Note: The CPO may request odditional information or documentotion before determining to apply the preference.


 t          Contract title

           Specification



2          The value of work performed by BEPD prime contractors or subcontractors (as defined in MCC 2-92-586 and the
           applicable bid solicitation) that Bidder commits to provide will be what percentage of the total dollar value of the
           contract?
           (   ) 2%to 5%-- 7%   incentive (          ) 6%to 9%- 2% incentive

           (   | t0%to t3%- 3%    incentive (        ) L4% or greater-- 4% incentive

Bidder understands that if it fails to utilize the committed percentage of BEPD subcontractors, under MCC2-92-337 it may
be fined in an amount equal to three times the amount of the bid incentive allocated, unless the prime contractor can
demonstrate that due to circumstances beyond the prime contractor's control, the prime contractor for good cause was
unable to retain the percentage of BEPD subcontractors throughout the duration ofthe contract period.

Bidder understands that it may be required to produce records to the CPO to verify the information provided.


Under penalty of perjury the person signing below: (L) warrants that he/she is authorized to execute this Affidavit on behalf
of bidder, and (2) warrants that all certifications and statements contained in this Affidavit are true, accurate, and complete
as of the date of execution.


Name of Bidder:
                                (Print or Type)

Signature of Authorized Officer
                                             (Signatu re)


Title of Signatory:
                                (Print or Type)



State of
County of
Signed and sworn (or affirmed) to before me on                       (date) by
                        (name/s of person/s making statement).

(Signature of Notary Public)
(Seal)




                                                                82
                                                                   RFP for lnformation Technology Assessment and Strategic Plan
                                                                                                       Specification No 680721


                                                     EXHIBTT I I

                                  DATA POLICY/DATA WITH CONTRACTOR


"Breach" rneans the acquisition, access, use, or clisclosure of Protected lnforrnation that compromises the security
or privacy of the Protected Information.

 "Contractor" means an entity that receives or encounters Protected Information. Contractor includes, without
limitation, entities that store Protected Information, or host applicatiorrs that process Protected Information. The
provisions of this Data Policy includes not only the entity that is a signatory to this Policy but all subcontractors,
of wlratever tier, of that entity; the signatory must inform and obtain the agreement of sLrch subcontractors to the
terms of this Data Policy.

"Protected Information" means all data provided by City to Contractor or encountered by Contractor in the
performance of the services to the City, including, without limitation, all data sent to Contractor by City and/or
stored by Contractor on its servers. Protected Information includes, but is not limited to, employment records,
medical and health records, personal financial records (or other personally identifiable information), research data,
and classified government information. To the extent there is any uncertainty as to whether any data constitutes
Protected Information, the data in question shall be treated as Protected Information.



L   lnformation Securitv. Contractor agrees to the following:

    1.1.General. Notwithstanding any other obligation of Contractor under this policy, Contractor agrees that it
         will not lose, alter, or delete, either intentionally or unintentionally, any Protected Information, and that it
         is responsible for the safe-keeping of all such information, except to the extent that the City directs the
        Contractor in writing to do so.

    l.2.Access to Data. In addition to the records to be stored / maintained by Contractor, all records that are
         possessed by Contractor in its service to the City of Chicago to perform a governmental function are
         public records of the City of Chicago pursuant to the Illinois Freedom of Information Act (FOIA), unless
         the records are exempt under the Aot. FOIA requires that the City produce records in a very short period
         of time. If the Contractor receives a request from the City to produce records, the Contractor shall do so
         within 72 hours of the notice.

    1.3.   Minimum Standard for Data at Rest and Data in Motion. Contractor must, at a minimum, comply, in its
           treatment of Protected Information, with National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) Special
           Publication 800-53 Moderate Level Control. Notwithstanding this requirement, Contractor acknowledges
           that it must fully comply with each additional obligation contained in this policy. [f data is protected
           health information or electronic protected health information, as defined in the Health Insurance
           Potability and Accountability Act and Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health
           Act (HIPAA/HITECH) and regulations implementing these Acts (see 45 CFR Parts 160 and 164), it must
           be secured in accordance with "Guidance Specifying the Technologies and Methodologies that Render
           Protected Health Information Unusable, Unreadable, or Indecipherable to Unauthorized Individuals "
           available on the United States Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) websiie
           (http://www.hhs.gov/ocr/privacy/hipaa/administrative/breachnotificationrule/index.html), or at Volume
           74 of the Federal Register, beginning at page 42742. That guidance from the HHS states that valid
           encryption processes for protected health information data at rest (e.g., protected health information
           resting on a server), must be consistent with the NIST Special Publication 800-l ll, Guide for Storage
           Encryption Technologies for End User Devices. Valid encryption processes for protected health
           information data in motion (e.g., transmitted through a network) are those which comply with NIST
           Special Publications 800-52, Guidelines for the Selection and Use              of   Transport Layer Security


                                                          83
                                                                RFP for lnformation Technology Assessment and Strategic Plan
                                                                                                    Specification No 680721


     lmplemerrtation; 800-77, Guide to IPsec VPNs; or 800-113, Cuide to SSL VPNs, or others wlrich are
     Federal Information Processing Standards (FIPS) 140-2 validated.

    Where Data is to be Stored.      All   data must be stored only on computer systems located in the continental
    United States.

l.4.Requirement to Maintain Securit)¡ Program. Contractor acknowledges that the City has irnplemented an
     information security program to protect the City's information assets, which Program is available on the
     City        website at             htto://www.citvofchicaso.ors.lcitvlen/de pts/doit/supp info/initiatives -
       informationsecurit-v.html ("City Program"). Contractor shall be responsible for establishing and
     maintaining an information security program that is designed to: (i) ensure the security and
     confidentiality of Protected lnformation; (ii) protect against any anticipated threats or hazards to the
     security or integrity of Protected Information; (iii) protect against unauthorized access to or use of
     Protected Information; (iv) ensure the proper disposal of Protected Information; and, (v) ensure that all
     subcontractors of Contractor, if any, comply with all of the foregoing.

l.5.Undertaking b)¡ Contractor. Without limiting Contractor's obligation of confidentiality as further
     described herein, in no case shall the safeguards of Contractor's information security program be less
     stringent than the information security safeguards used by the City Program.

l.6.Right of Audit bly the Citv of Chicago. The City of Chicago shall have the right to review Contractor's
     information security program prior to the commencement of Services and from time to time during the
     term of this Agreement. During the performance of the Services, from time to time and without notice,
     the City of Chicago, at its own expense, shall be entitled to perform, or to have performed, an on-site
     audit of Contractor's information security program. In lieu of an on-site audit, upon request by the City
     of Chicago, Contractor agrees to complete, within forty-five (45 days) of receipt, an audit questionnaire
     provided by the Cify of Chicago or the City of Chicago's designee regarding Contractor's information
    security program.

l.7.Audit b), Contractor. No less than annually, Contractor shall conduct an independent third-party audit of
     its information security program and provide such audit findings to the City of Chicago, all at the
    Contractor's sole expense.

l.8.Audit Findings, Contractor shall implement at its sole expense any remedial actions as identified by               the
    City as a result of the audit.

l.9.Demonstrate Compliance - PC[. No less than annually, as defined by the City of Chicago and where
     applicable, the Contractor agrees to demonstrate compliance with PCI DSS (Payment Card Industry Data
     Security Standard). Upon City's request, Contractor must be preparedto demonstrate compliance of any
     system or component used to process, store, or transmit cardholder data that is operated by the
     Contractor as part of its service. Similarly, upon City's request, Contractor must demonstrate the
     compliance of any third party it has sub-contracted as paft of the service offering. As evidence of
     compliance, the Contractor shall provide upon request a current attestation of compliance signed by a
     PCI QSA (Qualified Security Assessor).

1.10.      Demonstrate Cornpliance    - HIPAA / HITECH. If the Protected Information includes protected
    health information     orelectronic protected health information covered under HIPAA/HITECH,
    Contractor must execute, and be governed by, the provisions in its contract with the City regarding
    HIPAA/HITECH, the regulations implementing those Acts, and the Business Associate Agreement in its
    contract with the City. As specified in I .3, protected health information must be secured in accordance
    with the "Guidance Specifliing the Technologies and Methodologies that Render Protected Health
    Information Unusable, Unreadable, or Indec ipherable to Unauthorized Ind ividuals."



                                                        84
                                                                 RFP for lnformation Technology Assessment and Strategic Plan
                                                                                                     Specification No 680721


  I   I   .       Data Confidentiality. Contractor shall implement appropriate measures designed to ensure the
          confidentiality and security of Protected Information, protect against any anticipated hazards or threats to
          the integrity or security of such information, protect against unauthorized access or disclosure of
          information, and prevent any other action that could result in substantial harm to the City of Chicago or
          an individual identified with the data or information in Contractor's clrstody.

1.12                           with All Laws and                 Contractor agrees that it    will comply with all laws
          and regulations.

                  Limitation of Access. Contractor will not knowingly permit any Contractor personnel to have
          access to any City of Chicago facility or any records or data of the City of Chicago if the person has been
          convicted of a crime in connection with (i) a dishonest act, breach of trust, or money laundering, or (ii) a
          felony. Contractor must, to the extent permitted by law, conduct a check of public records in all of the
          employee's states of residence and employment for at least the last five years in order to verity the
          above. Contractor shall assure that all contracts with subcontractors impose these obligations on the
          subcontractors and shall monitor the subcontractors' compliance with such obligations.

1.13.             Data Re-Use. Contractor agrees that any and all data exchanged shall be used expressly and
          solely for the purposes enumerated in the Agreement. Data shall not be distributed, repurposed or shared
          across other applications, environments, or business units of Contractor. As required by Federal law,
          Contractor further agrees that no City of Chicago data of any kind shall be revealed, transmitted,
          exchanged or otherwise passed to other Contractors or interested parties except on a case-by-case basis
          as specifically agreed to in writing by an officer of the City of Chicago with designated data, security, or
          signature authority.

1.14.          Safekeeping and Security. Contractor will be responsible for safekeeping all keys, access codes,
       passwords, combinations, access cards, personal identification numbers and similar security codes and
       identifiers issued to Contractor's employees, agents or subcontractors. Contractor agrees to require its
       employees to promptly report a lost or stolen access device or information to their primary business
       contact and to the City of Chicago Information Security Office.

1.15.         Mandatory Disclosure of Protected Information. lf Contractor is compelled by law or regulation
      to disclose any Protected Information, the Contractor will provide to the City of Chicago with prompt
      written notice so that the City of Chicago may seek an appropriate protective order or other rernedy. If a
      remedy acceptable to the City of Chicago is not obtained by the date that the Contractor must comply
      with the request, the Contractor will furnish only that portion of the Protected Information that it is
      legally required to furnish, and the Contractor shall reqLrire any recipient of the Protected Information to
      exercise commercially reasonable efforts to keep the Protected Information confidential.

1.16.         Data Breach. Contractor agrees to comply with all laws and regulations relating to data breach,
      including without limitation, the Illinois Personal Information Protection Act and other applicable
      Illinois breach disclosure laws and regulations. Data breaches of protected health information and
      electronic protected health information shall be governed by the provisions regarding HIPAA/HITECH,
      and the regulations implementing those Acts, in the Contractor's contract with the City, specifically the
      Business Associate Agreement in such contract. Contractor will immediately notify the City if security
      of any Protected Information has been breached, and will provide information as to that breach in such
      detail as requested by the City. Contractor will, if requested by the City, notif, any affected individuals
      ofsuch breach at the sole cost ofthe Contractor.

1.17.        Data Sanitization and Safe Disposal. All physical and electronic records must be retained per
      federal, state and local laws and regulations, including the Local Records Act. Where disposal is
      approved, the Contractor agrees that prior to disposal or reuse of all magnetic media (e.g. hard disk,
      floppy disk, removable media, etc.) which may have contained City of Chicago data shall be submitted


                                                         85
                                                         RFP for lnformation Technology Assessment and Strategic Plan
                                                                                             Specification No. 680721


   to a    data sanitization process which meets or exceeds DoD 5220.28-M 3-pass specifications.
   Certification of the completion of data sanitization shall be provided to the City of Chicago within l0
   days of completion. Acceptance of Certification of Data Sanitization by the Information Security Office
   of the City of Chicago is required prior to media reuse or disposal. All other materials which contain City
   of Chicago data shall be physically destroyed and shredded in accordance to NIST Special Publication
   800-88, Guidelines for Media Sanitizatiorr, specifications.

1.18.      End of Agreement Data Handling. The Contractor agrees that upon termination of this Agreement
  it shall return all data to the City of Chicago in a useable electronic form, and erase, destroy, and render
  unreadable all data in its entirety in accordance to the prior stated Data Sanitization and Safe Disposal
  provisions. Data must be rendered in a manner that prevents its physical reconstruction through the use
  of commonly available file restoration utilities. Certification in writing that these actions have been
  completed must be provided within 30 days of the termination of this Agreement or within 7 days of a,
  request of an agent of the City of Chicago, whichever shallcome first.




                                                 86
