      Invitation No.: 530-20
      Location: Walhonding River, Lower Maumee and Grand
      Commodity: Inter-Agency Review Team-approved Category 3 wetland mitigation credits
      Pricing: http://www.dot.state.oh.us/Divisions/ContractAdmin/Contracts/PurchDocs/530pricing.xls

                                                  Request For Proposal (RFP)
                                                  State of Ohio, Department of Transportation
                                                 Office of Contract Sales, Purchasing Services
                                                       Jack Marchbanks, Ph. D., Director

                                          Proposals Submission Deadline (Opening Date):
                                            February 11, 2019 at 2:00 p.m. eastern time


                                                               Submitted by:

                    Company Name:

                    Federal Tax ID No.:

                     Physical/Mailing Address:                                     Remit to Payment Address:
Street Address:

P.O. Box:

City:

St:

Zip:

Contact Person and Phone Number:
(authorized to answer questions
about your company’s bid)

E-Mail Address (required):
(person who filled out bid)

E-Mail Address (required):
(for notification of future bid opportunities)


            Telephone Number                                  800 Number                          Fax Number




      Return Properly Marked, Complete Bid Packages To:
      Ohio Department of Transportation
      Office of Contract Sales, Purchasing Services, 1st floor
      1980 West Broad St. Mail Stop 4110
      Columbus, OH 43223

          BIDDERS MUST SUBMIT ANY QUESTIONS, CLARIFICATIONS, OR INQUIRIES REGARDING THIS
                         REQUEST FOR PROPOSAL VIA THE FOLLOWING WEBSITE:
             http://www.dot.state.oh.us/Divisions/ContractAdmin/Contracts/Pages/PurchasePBQ.aspx
Contents
SECTION I.            GENERAL OVERVIEW .............................................................................................................. 2

SECTION II.            SCOPE OF WORK & SPECIFICATIONS OF DELIVERABLES ................................................ 3

SECTION III. VENDOR QUALIFICATIONS AND EXPERIENCE ...................................................................... 7

Technical Proposal Score Sheet ............................................................................................................................ 11

State of Ohio, Department of Transportation (ODOT) .................................................................................... 14

Terms and Conditions for Submitting Excel Pricing File in Bid Package ............................................................... 14

INSTRUCTIONS, TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR BIDDING ........................................................................ 15

GENERAL DEFINITIONS .................................................................................................................................. 29

STANDARD CONTRACT TERMS AND CONDITIONS ................................................................................... 32

SIGNATURE PAGE ............................................................................................................................................ 49




                                                                              1
SECTION I. GENERAL OVERVIEW
1.1    Overview

The Ohio Department of Transportation (ODOT) Office of Environmental Services (OES) is
issuing this Request for Proposal (RFP) to solicit for proposers to provide Inter-Agency Review
Team (IRT)-approved Category 3 wetland mitigation credits. The intent of this RFP is for the
Proposer to provide full delivery mitigation services to satisfy mitigation requirements under
Clean Water Act Section 404 and 401, and the Ohio Isolated Wetlands Law for ODOT’s
proposed impacts that require Category 3 wetland mitigation. The successful Proposer will be
required to perform full-delivery of wetland mitigation services including locating, assessing,
environmental investigations and reporting, environmental documentation, environmental
permitting, real estate processes including acquisition services, design tasks, restoration and
construction, monitoring, IRT approval, adaptive management, repair, and long-term protection
and management of the land and credits provided under the resulting agreement. The
Category 3 wetland mitigation credits must be IRT-approved per IRT approval process. Once a
proposal has been selected, the Proposer and ODOT will work together to develop a project-
specific contract.

The Proposer shall also adhere to all applicable guidelines and Federal and State Regulations
and Laws, including but not limited to all laws and regulations governed by the United States
Army Corps of Engineers, Ohio Environmental Protection Agency, United States Fish and
Wildlife Service, Ohio Department of Natural Resources, United States Coast Guard, Federal
Emergency Management Agency, and the National Parks Service.

The Proposer shall perform the services at the direction of the Administrator of ODOT’s Office
of Environmental Services, the Assistant Environmental Administrator of the
Ecological/Waterway Permits/RMR Section in ODOT’s Office of Environmental Services and/or
their designee.

For the above Scope of Services, the following will apply:

•      All work shall be performed on an actual cost basis. The consultant shall maintain a
       project cost accounting system that will segregate costs for credit delivery as detailed
       below.
•      The duration of the contract will be eleven (11) years from the date the resulting
       agreement is signed. Long term management and preservation of property will extend
       indefinitely.
•      ODOT shall select one Proposer (or joint venture, if applicable) from the proposals
       received. Following selection, the Proposer will provide the contracted services under
       that agreement for an amount not exceed $1,200,000.



                                                2
SECTION II. SCOPE OF WORK & SPECIFICATIONS OF DELIVERABLES
Any content received in a proposal shall, at the discretion of ODOT, be included in the final
contract with the selected Proposer. Proposals may include information in addition to the
requirements listed below.

Proposal Length:
The proposal should be no more than 25 pages (8.5” x 11”), 12-point font (minimum), with two-
sided printing. Up to 10 pages can be 11”x17” for figures and will count towards the 25-page
limit. A title page should at a minimum indicate the RFP number and name, Proposer
organization name, date, and project manager contact information.

Proposers are required to include in their completed proposal packages:

1.      (1) Original copy of the Proposal with original signature page and any issued addenda
        (must be clearly marked as the original)
2.      (6) Copies of the Proposal for Scoring Committee members (must be clearly marked as
        copies somewhere on the cover)
3.      (1) Electronic copy of the Proposal (.pdf format)
4.      (1) Electronic, redacted copy of the Proposal that has removed any proprietary
        information and/or trade secrets. The ODOT shall not be held responsible for
        information released to any party when providing this redacted file in accordance with
        Ohio Public Records Laws. (.pdf format)

NOTE: For ease of evaluation, all Proposals should be compiled and formatted as to clearly
outline EACH of the following eight (8) sections below. The use of tabs is required to clearly
outline each one of the nine sections of your Proposal.

Proposers must provide, at a minimum, the following sections within their submitted project
proposals:

     1. Project Approach

a.      Proposed approach to delivering IRT-Approved Category 3 Wetland Mitigation Credits.

b.      Past Performance and Experience: Describe Proposer’s experience in providing similar
        services to publicly or privately-owned companies or other state or federal agencies. For
        projects of a comparable nature, provide examples of projects in progress or completed
        since 2000 that may include any of the following:

        1.     Examples of implementing similar type services, either public or private.

        2.     Examples of successful project completion emphasizing the ability to meet
               project outcomes and deadlines.

                                                3
c.      Proposer must demonstrate experience in managing, developing and operating the type
        and style of services that are outlined herein. The qualifications and experience of
        Proposer’s key personnel must be described. The following information must be
        presented for all key personnel according to their respective roles in the project:

        1.     Resume/CV
        2.     Relevant Experience
        3.     Experience providing wetland mitigation services
        4.     Experience and past performance in implementing, managing and/or operating
               wetland mitigation full delivery services
        5.     Availability and commitment to work on this service


     2. References (Contract Related)

        Proposer must provide at least three references for the project team that may be called
        upon to obtain first-hand information to assist ODOT in its evaluation. Include the name
        of the organization as well as the name, address, e-mail address, and telephone number
        of a contact person.

     3. Organizational Structure

a.      Description of Organization: ODOT desires to understand the ownership and
        organizational structure of the principal organization pertinent to this opportunity, and
        also gain an insight into the proposed business operation. The organizational structure
        must be described, identifying the entity that would enter as the Proposer into any
        contract with ODOT. An organizational chart should be developed in sufficient detail to
        indicate a chain of executive authority from the president or comparable chief executive
        down through the person who will be directly responsible for project delivery and
        contract adherence. Identify the individuals occupying the positions shown and state
        the length of experience of officers and key executives in their respective fields as
        presented in the organizational chart. Resumes are to be included for those principals
        and key personnel who will be assigned and involved in managing, directing or
        supervising the work as presently contemplated.

b.      Proposer must possess the necessary credentials to conduct business in Ohio. Proposers
        with out-of-state headquarters or corporations not incorporated in Ohio must include
        with their proposal a copy of their registration to do business in Ohio. If the project will
        be conducted under a joint venture arrangement, each party to the venture must be
        identified and the roles that each will have in the development and/or operation must
        be described. Letters of agreement to participate in the joint venture as well as the
        percentage of participation must be submitted from each of the joint venture partners.


                                                 4
     4. Schedule

a.      Proposer shall provide a schedule of work based off the Ohio Interagency Review Team
        (IRT) Guidelines for Wetland Mitigation Banking and In-Lieu Fee Programs in Ohio
        (Version 2.0 or most recent), “Mitigation Guidelines”

               i.      Specifically, the schedule must include a tiered release of wetland credits
                       (see Mitigation Guidelines, Section 10: Credit Release Schedule,
                       https://www.lrh.usace.army.mil/Portals/38/Users/007/87/1287/OH%20Wetland%20Guid
                       eline%20Mit%20Bank%20Inlieu%202.0.pdf?ver=2019-06-12-125512-657)

b.      By 2025 a percentage of Category 3 credits must be available for use.

c.      By 2031 all proposed credits must be available for use.

     5. Financial Information (not included in the 25-page proposal limit)

a.      References (Financial Related): Proposer must provide at least three business references
        for all organizations that will be principally involved in providing the services requested
        by this Request for Proposal. References may be called upon to discuss such matters
        related to financial strength, stability, credit history and general business reputation.
        Include the name of the organization as well as the name, address and telephone
        number of a contact person.

b.      Financial Plan: Proposer must demonstrate its ability to finance or obtain financing from
        credible sources to undertake and successfully complete the planning, implementation,
        operation and management of this agreement. If Proposer intends to finance any
        portion of the project through a lender, the response should indicate the potential
        lender and expected terms and conditions.

c.      Financial Statements (all participating companies): Proposer shall furnish complete
        audited or reviewed financial statements for the two most recent operating years,
        including 10K statements, if prepared. Financial statements should include income
        statements, balance sheets and cash flow statements, along with accompanying notes.
        This information is required for each participant company comprising the principal
        organization. Companies should also furnish a review of the operations of the business
        for the two most recent operating years or annual reports to owners or stockholders.
        ODOT recognizes the sensitive nature of the financial information requested. Such
        information will be used solely by ODOT for the purpose of evaluation and will be kept
        confidential to the extent allowed by Ohio law.




                                                  5
     6. Legal Actions (not included in the 25-page proposal limit)

a.      Proposer must list a brief description of all legal actions for the past three (3) years in
        which any participating company has been involved, including but not limited to:

        1.     A debtor in bankruptcy; or
        2.     Circumstances surrounding any contract defaults; or
        3.     A defendant in a lawsuit for deficient performance under a contract; or
        4.     A respondent in an administrative action for deficient performance on a project;
               or
        5.     A defendant in a criminal action; or
        6.     A principal in any action taken against an insurance or bonding company.

     7. Exceptions/Deviations (not included in the 25-page proposal limit)

a.      Proposers shall make apparent in their submitted proposal any exceptions and/or
        deviations to any of the content included in this Request for Proposal. Any exceptions or
        deviations taken must contain sufficient amplification and justification to permit
        evaluation.

b.      An exception to specific items or provisions of this RFP implies that the Proposer cannot
        or does not intend to meet the requirements of that item or provision. An alternative to
        that item or provision shall be included in the proposal and the impact, if any, of the
        exception shall be reflected in proposal pricing considerations. Proposers are advised
        that their proposals may be rejected as non-responsive upon consideration of the
        exceptions taken.

c.      A deviation from a specific item or provision in this RFP is a suggested change that, in
        the Proposer’s opinion, would enhance its ability to perform the work and/or would
        provide a benefit to ODOT. Each proposed deviation shall be noted in the appropriate
        section of the proposal and shall adequately and concisely describe its advantages
        and/or reasons for proposal.

     8. Signature Page and Addenda (not included in the 25-page proposal limit)

a.      Proposers shall submit with their completed proposals a signed signature page as well
        as a hard copy of any addenda issued. Failure to submit an executed signature page and
        any issued addenda shall render a proposal non-responsive and ineligible for award.

b.      There shall be no exceptions given to this requirement.




                                                 6
2.2    Specifications of Deliverables

       •   Mitigation credit must occur within these 8-digit Hydrologic Unit Codes (HUC):
           Walhonding River (05040003) Lower Maumee (04100009), and Grand (04110004).
       •   Provide the maximum number of IRT-approved Category 3 forested trajectory
           wetland credits.
       •   Provide a minimum of 15 credits of IRT-approved wetland mitigation
           (reestablishment (restoration) or establishment (creation) as defined in OAC 3745-1-
           54.
       •   Of the 15 credits of IRT-approved wetland mitigation, 8 credits at a minimum must
           be of IRT-approved Category 3 forested trajectory wetland mitigation
           (reestablishment (restoration) or establishment (creation) as defined in OAC 3745-1-
           54.
       •   No Category 1 wetland should be proposed, nor will it be accepted.


SECTION III. VENDOR QUALIFICATIONS AND EXPERIENCE
3.1     Mandatory Requirements – vendors MUST meet, at minimum, ALL of the following
qualification requirements:

       •   Vendor must demonstrate that they have prior experience receiving IRT-approved
           category 3 wetland mitigation credit for a project.
       •   Vendor must be able to adhere to the schedule and release of mitigation credits as
           per the Schedule in Section 4 above.

Vendors who do not meet ALL the above experience and qualifications will be disqualified
from further consideration for contract award

3.2    Organizational Experience and Capabilities – vendors will be evaluated based on the
following:

       •   Experience in conducting at least two similar types of projects/programs within the
           past 10 years that demonstrate expertise in mitigation, specifically IRT-approved
           wetland credit
       •   Name and contact information for leaders of those projects/programs
       •   Name(s) of any subcontractor(s) that will be involved in working with the vendor,
           and their experience/qualifications

3.3     Staff Experience and Capabilities – proposals should demonstrate significant expertise
by assigning staff to key leadership roles. Proposals must include, at minimum:




                                              7
       •   Must have a team comprised of individuals with backgrounds in biology, ecology,
           environmental science, environmental engineering, hydrology, geology, or
           applicable science and engineering related coursework.
       •   Identified staff, by name and position, who are considered key to the
           project/program’s success
       •   Resumes/curriculum vitae of those key staff that describe appropriate education,
           experience and expertise needed for the project/program

Sensitive Personal Information: It is the sole responsibility of the vendor submitting a proposal
to remove all personal confidential information (such as home addresses and social security
numbers) of vendor staff and/or of any subcontractor and subcontractor staff from resumes or
any other part of the proposal package. Following submission to ODOT, all proposals submitted
may become part of the public record. ODOT reserves the right to disqualify any vendor
whose proposal is found to contain such prohibited personal information.


Proposal Submission Requirements
   A. Delivery of Documents

       Sealed submissions for this Request for Proposal will be received until 2:00PM eastern time on
       February 11, 2020 at the following location:

                                 Ohio Department of Transportation
                                 Office of Contracts, Purchasing Services
                                 1980 W. Broad Street – Mail Stop 4110
                                 Columbus, OH 43223

       The submitted materials shall be properly labeled on the outside of the envelope with the
       following specifics. If the materials do not contain the following listings, ODOT may reject the
       proposal:

       Required for Submittal:

       One (1) signed original
       Five (4) copies of the Proposal
       An electronic PDF of the Proposal

       No proposals will be accepted after the date and time specified on this page. No facsimile or
       email transmissions will be accepted. ODOT reserves the right to reject any and all proposals.
       Timely receipt of proposals will be determined by the date and time the proposal is received (date
       stamped) in the Office of Contracts. Receipt of proposals by any other mechanism other than
       delivery to the Office of Contracts shall not be considered timely. Hand delivery is encouraged to
       assure timely receipt. Proposals received after the deadline will be stamped for time and date
       and returned unopened.

       All materials submitted in accordance with this solicitation become the property of the State of
       Ohio and shall not be returned. All materials submitted in accordance with this solicitation shall
       remain confidential until Successful Proposer(s) are selected after Round 2 at which time all
       submitted information becomes part of the public record.



                                                    8
   B. Inquires

        Pre-proposal questions must be received no later than the close of business the Thursday prior to
        the scheduled opening date. An addendum being issued is dependent upon the information
        received and the impact on the competitive bidding process.

        All pre-proposal inquiries must have the following: Name of the Sender, Contractor or Company
        Name, Phone Number, Project Number, Letting Date, a detailed description of the question.

        Proposers are NOT to contact any other ODOT office, including District offices, for responses to
        pre-bid questions.

        Department responses will be posted to the following website:

        http://www.dot.state.oh.us/Divisions/ContractAdmin/Contracts/Purchase/PBQ-Answers.doc

        Proposal Inquiries may be submitted at this link:

        http://www.dot.state.oh.us/Divisions/ContractAdmin/Contracts/Pages/PurchasePBQ.aspx

        Based upon the content of any received questions/clarifications, proposal requirements may,
        solely at the discretion of ODOT, be modified, changed or deleted. Any such changes to this
        RFP will be communicated by addendum and published to the ODOT website at the following
        URL:

        http://www.dot.state.oh.us/Divisions/ContractAdmin/Contracts/Lists/PurchaseUpcomingITBs/RFP.
        aspx

Proposal Response
   The RFP Proposal response must contain information on how the Proposer intends to perform the
   services outlined in the RFP. Omission of required information may render a Proposer ineligible, and
   incomplete responses may result in the loss of points. The selected Proposer will become the
   Vendor of record with ODOT. The State of Ohio is not responsible for legal agreements.

   Proposers must submit a response for the following areas:
        A.    Implementation/Management Plan/Work Plan
        B.    Organizational Structure/Staffing Plan
        C.    Cost Proposal (submitted SEPARATELY AND SEALED)
        D.    Signature Page

   Implementation/Management Plan

        The Proposer shall submit a statement of the Proposer’s understanding of the scope and
        his/her/their capabilities to perform the requirements of the RFP, along with a narrative of how the
        Proposer intends to implement and manage each of the tasks set forth in this RFP. Provide a
        technical description of the methodology anticipated in the performance of the services described
        above. Other good innovative and creative approaches to accomplish the goals of the contract
        will be given consideration and should also be included in this section.


   A.    Organizational Structure

         The Proposer must provide the names and résumés of each individual that will be working on
         the RFP. Designate the individual who will be committed to ensuring performance of all tasks

                                                     9
    under the prospective contract (Project Manager). Provide a résumé and contact information for
    the Project Manager. Please provide a staffing plan the list any other professionals who will be
    given key responsibilities in fulfilling the requirements necessary to perform the services.
    Provide supporting documentation, such as a résumé, for each individual summarizing their
    experience on similar assignments or projects. Each résumé must identify each employee with
    the years of service, educational background, the duties and responsibilities for that employer,
    and a phone number for a contact person. Identify each individual and the percent of time that
    each person would be assigned to each major task in the Scope of Services.

B. Cost Proposal

   The Proposer shall submit a SEPARATELY SEALED Cost Proposal as part of the Proposal
   Package. Any proposal in which this Cost Proposal is not included will be considered non-
   responsive and the proposal will be rejected. The Proposer’s completed Cost Proposal shall
   become a part of the contract upon award of the contract. Cost shall not exceed 1.2 million
   dollars.

   The Cost Proposal shall be submitted in the Excel format, as well as printed hard copies.

C. Signature Page

   An original, signed Signature Page must be included with a proposer’s response to this RFP.
   Submitted proposals not containing a signed signature page will be rejected and deemed non-
   responsive.




                                              10
Technical Proposal Score Sheet
Scoring of Technical Proposal
Technical Proposals will be collectively scored by a Proposal Review Team (PRT) appointed by ODOT.
For each of the evaluation criteria given in the score sheet, reviewers will collectively judge whether the
technical proposal does not meet, partially meets, meets or exceeds each criterion, and assign the
appropriate point value. The scoring is by consensus and one official score sheet will be completed for
each technical proposal that is scored.

Criteria for Considering the Cost Proposal
The cost proposal will be reviewed by the PRT. The grand total of the vendor’s cost proposal will be
divided by that vendor’s final technical proposal score. This compares the cost with the quality of the
technical proposal, which will provide an average cost-per-quality point earned on the technical proposal.

ODOT may, at its sole discretion, negotiate with all technically qualifying vendors for a revised cost
proposal. Vendors may then: 1) Submit one last and best offer; 2) request that ODOT view its original
cost proposal as its last and best offer; or 3) May formally withdraw from further consideration. The
vendor shall formally indicate its choice according to directions provided by ODOT at that time. Upon
receipt of all last and best offers, ODOT will then consider those vendors’ revised cost proposals.
PHASE I: Initial Qualifying Criteria

The proposal must meet all of the following Phase I proposal acceptance criteria in order to be
considered for further evaluation. Any proposal receiving a “no” response to any of the following
qualifying criteria shall be disqualified from consideration.


ITEM                          PROPOSAL ACCEPTANCE CRITERIA                                      YES    NO
  #


 1     Was the vendor’s proposal received by the deadline as specified in the RFP?
       Did the vendor submit a proposal comprised of a Technical Proposal and, in a
 2
       separate, appropriately labeled, sealed envelope, a Cost Proposal?
       Does the vendor demonstrate they have prior experience receiving IRT-approved
 3
       category 3 wetland mitigation credit?
       Does the Vendor’s proposed schedule adhere to the schedule and release of
 4
       mitigation credits as per the Schedule in Section 4?

PHASE II: Criteria for Scoring of Technical Proposal

Qualifying technical proposals will be collectively scored by a Proposal Review Team (PRT) appointed by
ODOT. For each of the evaluation criteria given in the following score sheet, reviewers will collectively
judge whether the technical proposal exceeds, meets, partially meets or does not meet the requirements
expressed in the RFP, and assign the appropriate point value, as follows:

                                0                    6              8                 10
                          Does Not Meet      Partially Meets     Meets             Exceeds
                           Requirement        Requirement      Requirement        Requirement



Technical Performance Scoring Definitions:


                                                     11
“Does Not Meet Requirement”- A particular RFP requirement was not addressed in the vendor’s
proposal, Score: 0

“Partially Meets Requirement”-Vendor proposal demonstrates some attempt at meeting a particular
RFP requirement, but that attempt falls below acceptable level, Score: 6

“Meets Requirement”-Vendor proposal fulfills a particular RFP requirement in all material respects,
potentially with only minor, non-substantial deviation, Score: 8

“Exceeds Requirement”-Vendor proposal fulfills a particular RFP requirement in all material respects,
and offers some additional level of quality in excess of ODJFS expectations, Score: 10

A technical proposal’s total PHASE II score will be the sum of the point value for all the evaluation criteria.
The review team will collectively score each individual qualifying proposal. Technical proposals which do
not meet or exceed a total score of at least 484 points (a score which represents that the selected vendor
has the capability to successfully perform the project/program services) out of a maximum of 628 points,
will be disqualified from further consideration, and its cost proposal will neither be opened nor considered.
Only those vendors whose Technical Proposals meet or exceed the minimum required technical points
will advance to PHASE III of the technical proposal score sheet.


ITEM                    EVALUATION CRITERIA                                   Weighting   Doesn’t   Partially   Meets   Exceeds
  #                                                                                        Meet      Meets
                                                                                            0          6         8        10
SCOPE OF WORK & SPECIFICATIONS OF
DELIVERABLES
PROPOSED WORK PLAN – Vendors Proposed Work Plan
should fully address each section listed in the Scope of
Work section. For complete explanation of the sections see
Section II above.
 1     The vendor has fully addressed the Project Approach.                      5

 2     The vendor has included contract related References.                      4

 3     The vendor has fully addressed the Organizational Structure.              3

 4     The vendor has included their proposed Schedule.                          5

 5     The vendor has included their Financial Information.                      3

 6     The vendor has included information on any Legal Actions.                 2

 7     The vendor has included any Exceptions/Deviations.                        2
       The vendor has included a completed Signature Page and any
 8                                                                               1
       issued Addenda.
       The proposed Work Plan shows that the mitigation credits occur
 9                                                                               5
       within the 8-digit Hydrologic Unit Codes, as outlined in section 2.2

       The proposed Work Plan provides the maximum number of IRT-
 10                                                                              5
       approved Category 3 forested trajectory wetland credits.

       The proposed Work Plan provides a minimum of 15 credits of
 11    IRT-approved wetland mitigation (reestablishment (restoration) or         5
       establishment (creation) as defined in OAC 3745-1-54.

       The proposed Work Plan shows that 8 credits, at a minimum,
       must be of IRT-approved Category 3 forested trajectory wetland
 12                                                                              4
       mitigation (reestablishment (restoration) or establishment
       (creation) as defined in OAC 3745-1-54.


                                                                12
ITEM                   EVALUATION CRITERIA                                 Weighting   Doesn’t   Partially   Meets   Exceeds
  #                                                                                     Meet      Meets
                                                                                         0          6         8        10
Organizational Experience and Capabilities

       The proposal demonstrates experience in conducting at least two
       similar types of projects/programs within the past 10 years that
 13                                                                           4
       demonstrate expertise in mitigation, specifically IRT-approved
       wetland credit?

       The vendor has included names and contact information for
 14                                                                           2
       leaders of those projects/programs?

       The vendor has included name(s) of any subcontractor(s) that will
 15    be involved in working with the vendor, and their                      3
       experience/qualifications?
       The vendor has proposed a team comprised of individuals with
       backgrounds in biology, ecology, environmental science,
 16                                                                           4
       environmental engineering, hydrology, geology, or applicable
       science and engineering related coursework?
       The vendor has identified staff, by name and position, who are
 17                                                                           3
       considered key to the project/program’s success?

       The vendor has included resumes/curriculum vitae of those key
 18    staff that describe appropriate education, experience and              3
       expertise needed for the project/program?

Column Subtotal of "Partially Meets" points
Column Subtotal of "Meets" points
Column Subtotal of "Exceeds" points
                                        GRAND TOTAL SCORE:



Based upon the Grand Total Technical Score earned, does the vendor’s proposal meet
or exceed the minimum Technical score of 484 points?
                                                Yes__________                No_____________
                                                                             (If “No” vendor’s Cost Proposal will NOT
be opened)

Cost Per Quality Point
Vendors Total Submitted Cost: ________________ / Grand Total Technical Score:
______________


Cost per Quality Point: _______________
The Technical Proposal with the lowest Cost per Quality point will be recommended for
award of the contract.




                                                              13
                          State of Ohio, Department of Transportation (ODOT)
                             Office of Contract Sales, Purchasing Services

   Terms and Conditions for Submitting Excel Pricing File in Bid Package
                                           (Last Revised 02/2019)

1. DOWNLOADING THE EXCEL PRICING FILE: Bidders can access and download the most current
Excel Pricing File for this Request For Proposal by following the hyperlink provided below:

http://www.dot.state.oh.us/Divisions/ContractAdmin/Contracts/PurchDocs/530pricing.xls

2. SUBMISSION OF EXCEL PRICING FILE: Bidders should submit both a media device with the
completed electronic Excel pricing file (.xls) and a hard copy print out of the completed Excel file in their
submitted bid package. The media device should be marked with the bidder’s name and the Request For
Proposal number.

“Media Device”- Compact Disc (CD), DVD (Digital Versatile Disc), or Flash Drive

Failure to submit this media device with a completed Excel price sheet from the Department’s Microsoft
Excel file and the hard copy print out of the completed Excel price sheet may result in a bid being deemed
non-responsive by the Department.

3. DISCPREPANCIES IN SUBMITTED INFORMATION: In the event there is a discrepancy between the
information submitted on the media device and the hard copy Excel price sheet, the information submitted
on the media device will take precedence.

4. NON-FUNCTIONAL MEDIA DEVICE: The Department shall not be held liable in the event a bidder’s
media device is not functional, is broken, or is unable to be accessed/downloaded by the Department for
any reason. Bidders should take care to ensure all submitted media devices are properly protected during
transport.

5. UNAPPROVED ALTERATIONS TO EXCEL PRICING FILE: Bidders who materially alter the original
content of the Excel pricing file (e.g. specifications, formulas, etc.) issued by the Department may be
found non-responsive and ineligible for award of this Request For Proposal.

6. CHANGES TO EXCEL PRICING FILE: The Department will only make modifications to the Excel
pricing file by written addendum only. Where changes are necessary to the Excel pricing page, the
Department will issue a new Excel pricing page indicating the revisions made and a revision date for the
changes.

 It is the sole responsibility of the bidder to check for issued addenda prior to submitting a bid package to
ensure the most updated Excel pricing file is being utilized.

7. DESCRIPTIVE LITERATURE: Bidders may electronically, on their submitted media device, provide
any descriptive literature (e.g. brochures, spec/cut sheets, drawings, MSDS, etc.) regarding the products
and/or services offered by the bidder. As this literature may be publicly posted for viewing by purchasers,
bidders must not submit any literature electronically in which they consider to be a trade secret,
proprietary, or confidential in any way.

                       (the remainder of this page has been left intentionally blank)




                                                     14
                       State of Ohio, Department of Transportation (ODOT)
                          Office of Contract Sales, Purchasing Services

          INSTRUCTIONS, TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR BIDDING
                                      (Last revised 02/2019)

1.    BIDDER REGISTRATION: The Department requires awarded bidder(s) to successfully register
      as a State of Ohio Supplier with the Department of Ohio Shared Services and successfully obtain
      an OAKS vendor identification number (OAKS ID) within fourteen (14) calendar days from the
      date of contract award and execution. The Department cannot utilize awarded Contracts to
      purchase from a bidder who cannot obtain an OAKS ID from Ohio Shared Services. In the event
      an awarded bidder is unable to obtain an OAKS ID, the Department shall reserve the right to
      revoke its award to the bidder and immediately cancel any resulting Contract.

      A Supplier Information Form and W-9 must be completed and sent back directly to Ohio Shared
      Services in order to register and apply for an OAKS ID. The following website can be accessed
      by bidders to obtain both the forms and specific instructions for obtaining an OAKS ID:

                     http://ohiosharedservices.ohio.gov/SupplierOperations/Forms.aspx

      It is strongly recommended that all interested bidders not already registered with Ohio Shared
      Services submit the above paperwork prior to the bid submission deadline.

2.    HOW BIDS MUST BE PACKAGED: All submitted bids in response to this Request For Proposal
      (RFP) must be submitted in a sealed envelope or box (envelope means any type of sealed,
      opaque container) marked with the RFP number, the title of the RFP, bid submission deadline
      (bid opening date), and bidder (company) name clearly marked on the outside of the
      envelope/box. If a bidder is using an “Express Mail” or similar type of service, the bid response
      must be contained in a sealed envelope within the “Express” mailer (the bid number must be
      listed on the exterior of the sealed envelope contained within the “Express” mailer). A bid that is
      not properly and clearly marked and is inadvertently opened, before the scheduled bid opening
      time, may be disqualified, at the Department’s discretion, without additional consideration for
      award of the contract.

        Below is an example to illustrate how the outer surface of the bid package should be labeled:

                            Request For Proposal #: (insert bid number)
                              Commodity/Service: (insert title of bid)
                            Bid Submission Deadline: (insert due date)
                             Company Name: (insert company name)

3.    WHAT NEEDS INCLUDED IN BID PACKAGE: Submitted bid packages should include, at a
      minimum, a completed Signature Page, a hard copy print out of this entire Request For Proposal
      document, media device with a completed Excel pricing page, hard copy of the completed Excel
      pricing page, and all necessary supportive documentation, forms, and any other information
      required herein. The Department may deem a bid non-responsive for failure to submit any of the
      documents requested above.

 4.   PREBID QUESTIONS, DISCREPANCIES, AND CLARIFICATIONS: Any discrepancies,
      omissions, ambiguities, or conflicts in or among the bidding documents or doubts as to the
      meaning shall be brought to the Department’s attention by the bidder no less than three (3)
      business days prior to the bid submission deadline. All questions, discrepancies, clarifications,
      etc. must be submitted electronically (hyperlink below). During the competitive bidding process,
      bidders (and their agents) are prohibited from contacting any ODOT office, including District

                                                 15
     offices, other than the Office of Contract Sales, Purchasing Services section to obtain responses
     to any questions. The Department may find a bidder non-responsive for failing to adhere to any of
     the above requirements.

     Pre-bid questions/inquiries must be submitted electronically through the following
     website:
     http://www.dot.state.oh.us/Divisions/ContractAdmin/Contracts/Pages/PurchasePBQ.aspx

     Answers to Pre-Bid Questions/Inquiries will be posted on the following document
     available for download at the following website:
     http://www.dot.state.oh.us/Divisions/ContractAdmin/Contracts/Purchase/PBQ-Answers.doc

     It is each bidder’s sole responsibility to check the website for updates to pre-bid questions and
     answers before submitting its bid package to the Department.

5.   MODIFICATIONS TO THE BIDDING DOCUMENTS: When it is deemed necessary to modify
     these bidding documents, the Department will only do so by written addendum. The issuance of
     an addendum is dependent upon the information received and the impact on the competitive bid
     process. All issued addenda will be posted to the Department’s Upcoming RFP’s website and
     shall be automatically incorporated into the bidding/contract documents:

     http://www.dot.state.oh.us/Divisions/ContractAdmin/Contracts/Lists/PurchaseUpcomingITBs/UpITBs.aspx

     In addition to posting on the above website, the Department also may email addenda information
     out to all known bidders for convenience purposes only. The Department shall not be held
     responsible for a bidder’s failure to receive the email with the addenda information. It is the sole
     responsibility of all interested bidders to diligently visit the above-listed website to see if any
     addenda have been issued prior to submitting their bid to the Department. Those interested in
     obtaining addenda information via email for a particular Request For Proposal must send the
     Department its request in writing to the following email address:
     Contracts.Purchasing@dot.ohio.gov

6.   PRE-BID CONFERENCES: The Department reserves the right to hold mandatory or optional pre-
     bid conferences at its discretion. Conferences may be held either in-person or via webinar/phone
     conference formats. Bidders will be required to sign-in at all pre-bid conferences. The sign-in
     sheet for all pre-bid conferences is considered a public record, will be kept in the bid file, and will
     be shared with any requesting party. Additionally, any business cards collected during any pre-bid
     conference shall be considered public records and may be distributed out to all conference
     attendees. Any changes to the requirements or specifications of a Request For Proposal, as a
     result of the pre-bid conference content, will be made by written addendum and publicly posted.

     For mandatory pre-bid conferences, the Department requires that those companies intending on
     submitting a bid be in attendance for the entire duration of the pre-bid conference. Mandatory pre-
     bid conferences will officially begin five (5) minutes after the scheduled date and start time at the
     location specified in the Special Terms and Conditions. Those bidders not in attendance at that
     time will be considered ineligible to submit a bid. The conference will be considered adjourned
     and complete when a representative of the Office of Contract Sales, Purchasing Services section
     indicates so. To be considered in attendance and eligible to bid, a bidder must have at least one
     representative of the company in attendance. A single representative cannot be present on behalf
     of two or more companies (bidders). Each company (bidder) must send its own representative on
     behalf of their organization. It is the sole responsibility of the bidder to ensure that the
     representative follows the sign-in procedures to properly document the bidder’s attendance. The
     Department shall not be held responsible for a bidder’s failure to arrive at the meeting on time,
     properly sign-in, or failure to stay for the entire duration of the meeting.



                                                  16
7.   WHERE BIDS MUST BE DELIVERED TO: The Department only accepts hand delivered and
     mailed bid packages. Bids submitted via email, telephone, electronic facsimile (fax), or any other
     mode of electronic transmission will not be considered a responsive bid submission. Bids must be
     in possession of the ODOT Office of Contract Sales, Purchasing Services section, on or prior to
     2:00 p.m. eastern time, on the scheduled date of the bid submission deadline (public bid opening)
     as listed on the cover of this Request For Proposal (RFP). Properly labeled bid packages must be
     either hand delivered by the bidder to the Office of Contract Sales, Purchasing Services section
     or mailed to the following EXACT address:




                                                17
                              Ohio Department of Transportation,
                    Office of Contract Sales, Purchasing Services, 1st floor
                             1980 West Broad St. Mail Stop 4110
                                     Columbus, OH 43223
                               (614) 644-7870 or (614) 752-9017
                               Main Office Line: 1-800-459-3778
           OFFICE HOURS: 7:30-3:30, M-F (excluding State of Ohio recognized holidays)

      For hand delivery of bids, the Office of Contract Sales, Purchasing Services section is located on
      the 1st floor of ODOT Central Office (same address as where bids will be received). Bidders will
      be required to sign-in at the front desk of the building and then must be escorted back to the
      Office of Contract Sales, Purchasing Services section in order to drop off their bid. It is the
      responsibility of the bidder to ensure enough time is allotted to allow for all sign in and security
      procedures prior to the 2:00 p.m. bid submission deadline. Delivery of bids to any other location
      (including the ODOT mailroom), does not constitute receipt by the Purchasing Services section.
      Bids delivered to the ODOT mail room by a courier service must be delivered so as to leave a
      reasonable amount of time for the transfer of the bid to the Purchasing Services section. The
      ODOT mail room delivers received mail to Purchasing Services at scheduled times during normal
      office hours.

8.    LATE BIDS: A bid received after 2:00 p.m. eastern time, on the bid submission deadline (bid
      opening date) established, shall be deemed “Late” and will not be considered for award of this
      Request For Proposal. The late bid package will be marked as late, remain sealed, and will be
      kept in the Department’s bid file to serve as official record of a late bid having been received.

      Note: The Office of Contract Sales, Purchasing Services timeclock takes precedence over any
      other timekeeping device (e.g. cell phones, other ODOT clocks, wrist watches, etc.) and will be
      utilized by the Department to determine whether or not a bid was received by the 2:00 p.m.
      deadline.

9.    PUBLIC BID OPENING PROCEDURE: All bids in possession of the Purchasing Services section
      shall be publicly opened, at ODOT Central Office, Office of Contract Sales, Purchasing Services
      section, 1st floor, starting at 2:01 p.m. on the scheduled date of public bid opening (bid submission
      deadline). All bids will be opened and read to any interested parties in attendance. At the
      conclusion of the public bid opening, bids may no longer be shared with interested parties until
      after a contract award has been made.

10.   BIDS FIRM: Once publicly opened, all bids are firm and cannot be altered by the bidder. Once a
      Contract is awarded and executed, the Vendor shall deliver all products and/or services at the bid
      prices and terms contained in the Contract. All submitted bids shall remain valid for a period of
      sixty (60) calendar days after the date of the public bid opening. Beyond sixty (60) calendar days,
      bidders will have the option to either honor their submitted bid or make a written request to
      withdraw their bid from consideration. The Ohio Department of Transportation shall receive the
      benefit of any decrease in price during the sixty (60) day period.

11.   WITHDRAWAL OF BIDS: A bidder may, by way of written notice to the Purchasing Services
      section, request to withdraw their bid response prior to the bid submission deadline. The request
      must be received by the Purchasing Services Section PRIOR to the start of the public bid opening
      (beginning at 2:01 p.m.) on the date of the bid submission deadline. Such written notice must set
      forth the specific reasons for the bid withdrawal.

      For requests to withdrawal a bid after the public bid opening has begun, the bidder may request
      to withdraw their bid response from consideration if the unit bid price(s) submitted are
      unreasonably lower than the other bids received, provided the bid was submitted in good faith,

                                                  18
and the reason for the unit bid price(s) being substantially lower was due to an unintentional and
substantial arithmetical error or unintentional omission of a substantial quantity of material or
labor in the compilation of the bid. Written notice of any such request to withdraw after the bid
opening must be received by the Purchasing Services section within no later than forty-eight (48)
hours of the scheduled public bid opening.




                                           19
      The decision to allow a bid to be withdrawn is at the sole discretion of the Purchasing Services
      section. If the bid is to be awarded by category, lot, or group the withdrawal request will apply to
      all items within the category, lot, or group. All documents and conversations relating to any
      withdrawal request will become a part of the permanent bid file.

12.   MODIFICATION OF SUBMITTED BIDS PRIOR TO PUBLIC BID OPENING: A bidder may
      request to modify their bid response prior to the scheduled date and time set for the public bid
      opening (i.e. bid submission deadline). To modify a bid response, the bidder must provide an
      alternate, complete bid package containing all required forms and necessary documents. The
      alternate bid package must be marked somewhere on the outer packaging as “REVISED”.
      Purchasing Services will not return the original bid package to the bidder. The original bid
      package will be kept in the contract file.

      In order to protect the integrity of the bidding process, bids shall not be prepared on the premises
      of ODOT. Any bid which is prepared on the premises of ODOT may be immediately disqualified
      and receive no further consideration for award.

13.   UNIT BID PRICES: The unit bid price(s) submitted shall govern the award of this Request For
      Proposal unless otherwise specified in the bid evaluation criteria. The unit bid price should be
      entered for each required bid item on the Department’s pricing page. Use of ditto marks, arrows,
      or other markings in lieu of the actual unit price may result in a non-responsive bid determination.
      Lot or group prices listed in the unit bid price area shall be considered as the unit price unless
      clearly identified as the lot price. Unless specifically allowed in the contract’s terms and
      conditions, requests to change or alter unit bid prices after the public bid opening are prohibited.

      The following requirements also apply to unit bid prices:

            a. DECIMAL POINT: Bidders should not insert a unit cost of more than two (2) digits to the
            right of the decimal point. Digit(s) beyond two (2) will be dropped and not recognized by the
            Department for the purposes of bid evaluation or contract award.

            b. CREDIT CARD FEES: Bidders must incorporate into their unit bid price(s) submitted all
            costs and fees associated with the State’s use of a payment (credit) card.

            c. DISCOUNTS: While bidders may offer to the Department discounts for prompt payment
            and other similar incentives, discounts and incentives these will not be used to alter the
            submitted unit bid price(s) for purposes of bid evaluation and contract award. This section
            only applies to bids awarded to the lowest responsive and responsible bidder either by
            individual bid item or group of bid items and does not include bids which are awarded to all
            responsive and responsible bidders (i.e. Multiple Award Contracts).

            d. MULTIPLE AWARD CONTRACTS: Pursuant to Ohio Revised Code 5513.02, the
            Department may award Contracts to all responsive and responsible bidders for articles (i.e.
            bid items) meeting the general specifications provided. These are referenced by the
            Department as ‘Multiple Award Contracts’. Unit bid prices submitted for Multiple Award
            Contracts shall be considered by the Department as an amount-not-to-exceed unit bid price
            for the entire duration of the Contract. These awarded, amount-not-to-exceed bid prices
            often do not reflect potential quantity discounts, freight discounts, nor other similar
            discounts/incentives offered periodically by a distributor, manufacturer, or supplier. Where
            like or similar bid items are being offered by two or more awarded Vendors (bidders) on the
            awarded Contract, the Department reserves the right to obtain quotes from all awarded
            bidders on the Contract in order to achieve the best and most up-to-date pricing available
            to the Department at the time of ordering.


                                                  20
e. UNBALANCED BIDS: The Department will not accept unit bid prices that are deemed to
be either materially or mathematically unbalanced. The final determination of an
unbalanced unit bid price shall be at the Department’s sole discretion.




                                  21
             f. TIE BID PROCESS: If two or more responsive bids offer the same unit bid price, ODOT
             may break the tie as follows: during the bid evaluation process, the bidders that submitted
             tie bids will be contacted and given up to three (3) business days to submit a written
             revised unit price for the affected item or items. Bidders are not required to submit a revised
             unit price. In the event a tie still exists after the above-prescribed deadline has passed,
             ODOT will schedule a coin flip to be conducted in the presence of both bidders. The winner
             of the coin flip will be deemed awarded the affected bid item(s).

14.     PREFERENCE FOR OHIO/BORDER STATE PRODUCTS: The bid award for this Request For
        Proposal may be subject to the domestic preference provisions of the Buy America Act, 41
        U.S.C.A., 10a-10d, as amended, and to the preference for Ohio products under O.R.C. Sections
        125.09 and 125.11 and Ohio Administrative Code Rule 123:5-1-06. A bidder must complete the
        enclosed Buy Ohio/Buy America Certification Statement form to be eligible to receive any
        applicable bid preferences.

15.    RESPONSIVE BIDDER: A bidder is responsive if its bid responds to the bid specifications in all
       material respects and contains no irregularities or deviations from the specifications that would
       affect the amount of the bid or otherwise give the bidder an unfair competitive advantage.

16.    MINOR INFORMALITIES OR IRREGULARITIES IN BIDS: A minor informality or irregularity is
       one that is merely a matter of form and not of substance. It also pertains to some immaterial
       defect in a bid or variation of a bid from the exact requirements of the invitation that can be
       corrected or waived without being prejudicial to other bidders. The defect or variation is
       immaterial when the effect on price, quantity, quality, or delivery is negligible when contrasted
       with the total cost or scope of the supplies or services being acquired. The Department either
       shall give the bidder an opportunity to cure any deficiency resulting from a minor informality or
       irregularity in a bid or waive the deficiency, whichever is to the advantage of the Department.

17.    BIDDER RESPONSIBILITY: The Department will only award this Request For Proposal to what
       it deems to be a responsible bidder. The Department’s determination of a bidder’s responsibility
       includes, but is not limited to, the following factors:

            a) experience of the bidder;
            b) bidder’s financial condition;
            c) bidder’s conduct and performance on previous contracts;
            d) the bidder’s facilities;
            e) the bidder’s management skills;
            f) the bidder’s employees;
            g) past experience and/or quality of bidder’s proposed subcontractors;
            h) the bidder’s ability to execute the contract;
            i) review of Federal and Department debarment lists;
            j) bidder has history of successful performance on contracts of similar size and scope; and
            k) current or impending legal actions against a bidder.

 18.   APPARENT CLERICAL MISTAKES: Clerical mistakes apparent on the face of the bid may be
       corrected, at the Department’s discretion, before contract award. The Department first shall
       obtain from the bidder a verification of the information intended and will attach written verification
       of the mistake by the bidder in the contract file and award documents. Example of apparent
       clerical mistakes are:

       (1) Obvious misplacement of a decimal point or comma;
       (2) Obvious incorrect discount factor; or
       (3) Transcription error in Part Number.


                                                    22
 19.   ADDITIONAL INFORMATION: The Department reserves the right to request additional
       information to evaluate a bidder’s responsiveness to the Request For Proposal’s requirements
       and/or to evaluate a bidder’s overall responsibility. These requests may require the bidder’s
       submission of confidential materials (e.g. financial statements). If a bidder does not provide all of
       the requested information within the prescribed timeframe, the Department may find the bid non-
       responsive and ineligible for award.

 20.   PRODUCT SAMPLES: The Department may require bidders, by Request For Proposal or by
       request during bid evaluation, to provide sample supplies or equipment or examples of work, at
       the Bidder’s expense. Samples must clearly identify the Bidder, the bid number, and the item the
       sample represents in the bid. The Department will return samples that are not destroyed by
       testing, at the Bidder's expense, upon the Bidder’s timely request. The Department may keep the
       samples of the Bidder awarded the contract until the completion of the contract. Unsolicited
       samples submitted in response to this Request For Proposal will not be evaluated and the
       Department may dispose of them in any way it chooses.

21.    SPECIFICATIONS: The Department is authorized by Sections 5513 and/or 125.02(B) of the Ohio
       Revised Code to prepare specifications and establish contracts to obtain the supplies, equipment,
       and/or services referenced within this Request For Proposal. The purpose of the provided
       specifications is to describe the supplies, equipment, and/or services to be purchased and will
       serve as a fair and equitable basis for comparison of submitted bids. The Department may use
       any form of specification it determines to be in the best interest of the Department and that best
       describes the supplies or services to be purchased. Specifications may be in the form of a design
       specification or a combination thereof. If the department determines that a design, performance
       or a combination specification is not in the best interest of the Department, it may use brand
       name or equal specifications.

        Unless otherwise specified in this Request For Proposal, all products, equipment, supplies, etc.
offered by bidders     must be in a new condition. A ‘new’ product is one that will be first used by the
Department after it    has been manufactured or produced. Used, reconditioned, or previously titled
products, supplies, or equipment will not be considered for award of this Request For Proposal.

       The Department uses qualified products list (QPL) and/or approved products lists (APL)
       developed by either itself or other qualified institutions to specify acceptable products and
       supplies that have been through proper application and testing procedures to verify conformance
       with technical and/or performance specifications. Where the Department requires products and
       supplies to be included on a specific QPL/APL listing, the Department will not accept bids for
       products/supplies that are not included on a specified QPL/APL at the time of public bid opening.

       A bidder may not be compensated for damages arising from inaccurate or incomplete information
       in the Request For Proposal specifications or from inaccurate assumptions based upon the
       specifications.

22.    USE OF BRAND NAMES: Unless otherwise provided in this solicitation, the name of a certain
       brand, make, or manufacturer does not restrict bidders to the specific brand, make, or
       manufacturer named, but conveys the general style, type, character, and quality of the article
       desired. Any article which the Department, in its sole discretion, determines to be the equivalent
       of that specified, considering quality, workmanship, economy of operation, or suitability for the
       purpose intended, may be accepted. The bidder is responsible to clearly and specifically identify
       the product being offered and to provide sufficient descriptive literature, catalog cuts and
       technical detail to enable the Department to determine if the product offered meets the
       requirements of the solicitation. Failure to furnish adequate data for evaluation purposes may
       result in declaring a bid nonresponsive. Unless the bidder clearly indicates in its bid that the
       product being offered is an equivalent product, such bid will be considered to offer the exact
       brand, make, or manufacturer name referenced in the bid solicitation.


                                                   23
23.   DEVIATIONS: Statements or modifications made by a bidder in their submitted bid package that
      deviate from this Request For Proposal’s terms, conditions, specifications and requirements may
      render a bid non-responsive and ineligible for award.

      Acceptance of any deviations or modifications will be confirmed by the Department in writing, if
      accepted. If the Department does not specifically approve submitted deviations or modifications in
      writing, an award of this Request For Proposal shall not constitute acceptance of the bidder’s
      submitted modifications.

24.   ESTIMATED QUANTITIES: Any purchase estimates indicated for bid item(s) are to be
      considered as estimates only. The Department makes no representation or guarantee as to the
      actual amount of item(s) to be purchased by the Department or Political Subdivisions.




                                                 24
25.   OVERLAPPING CONTRACT ITEMS: The products and/or services included in this solicitation
      may be available from other State of Ohio contracts and/or other contracts made available for the
      Department’s use. The existence of these contracts containing like or similar products and/or
      services could be either known or unknown to the Department at the time this Request For
      Proposal has been published. Unless otherwise stated in this contract, the Department may
      acquire these products and/or services from any available source. The Department will make
      purchases from sources that are deemed to be in the best interest of the Agency.

26.   REJECTION/PARTIAL AWARD OF BIDS: The Department reserves the right to reject any or all
      bid responses, award partial contracts, or choose to rebid when:

              (1) Product, supplies and/or services are not in compliance with the requirements,
              specifications, and terms and conditions set forth in this Request For Proposal; or

              (2) Pricing offered is determined to be excessive in comparison with existing market
              conditions, or exceeds the available funds of the Department; or

              (3) Only one bid is received, and the Department cannot determine the reasonableness
              of the bid prices submitted; or

              (4) It is determined that the award of any or all items would not be in the best interest of
              the Department; or

              (5) The Department, in its opinion, did not achieve the desired amount of competition
              amongst qualified bidders for the products, supplies, and/or services being offered in the
              bid solicitation; or

              (6) Inadequate or ambiguous specifications were cited in the bidding documents; or

              (7) The Department determines that specifications and/or requirements were missing
              from the bidding documents; or

              (8) A bidder imposes additional terms and conditions against the Department.

27.   NOTICE TO BIDDERS OF REJECTED BIDS: When the Department deems it necessary to
      reject a bid, the Department will notify each affected bidder and the reasons for such actions.

28.   BID PROTESTS: Any apparent low bidder either deemed not responsible or whose bid has been
      deemed non-responsive shall be notified by the Department of that determination and the
      reasons for it. The notification will be provided by the Department in writing and sent by U.S. mail
      and at the email address provided on the front cover of the bidder’s bid. The bidder will have five
      (5) calendar days after receipt (by mail or email confirmation) of this notification to file a written,
      valid protest of the Department’s determination. A valid written protest must contain substantive
      information and evidence so as to refute the Department’s asserted claims against either the bid’s
      responsiveness or bidder’s responsibility, whichever apply. The Department will only review and
      respond to valid written protests containing substantive information and evidence. After review of
      the valid written protest, the Department will either affirm or reverse its original determination.

      If a valid written protest is not received by the Department within five (5) calendar days of receipt,
      the Director of ODOT will move forward awarding the Contract and the affected bidder will have
      effectively waived its right to protest the Department’s decision. For the purposes of this
      paragraph, “receipt” shall be defined as verification (via either certified mail return receipt or
      electronic read or delivery receipt) that the apparent low bidder has received the Department’s

                                                   25
written determination against the affected bidder. Upon the bidder’s receipt, the five (5) calendar
day response deadline shall commence.




                                            26
29.   DELAYS IN CONTRACT AWARD: Delays in the award of this Request For Proposal beyond the
      anticipated Contract start date may result in a change in the contract period as indicated in the
      Special terms and conditions of this bid solicitation. In these instances, ODOT shall reserve the
      right to award a contract covering a period equal to or less than the initial contract term than
      originally specified in this bid solicitation.

30.   CONTRACT AWARD AND FORMATION: Successful bidder(s) will receive via U.S. regular mail
      and/or email a Notice of Contract Award letter as well as a photocopy version of the Signature
      Page executed by both Parties. These documents shall serve to form the Contract between the
      Parties. The Signature Page must be executed by both the bidder and the Director of ODOT for
      the Contract to be deemed valid and enforceable. The Department will maintain in the Contract
      file the Signature Page document containing each parties’ original signature(s).

      Upon award of a Request For Proposal, the bid invitation number (e.g. Invitation No. 999-16) will
      subsequently become the number assigned to the resulting Contract (e.g. ODOT Contract
      number 999-16) and will be referenced by the Department in all matters and documents related to
      said Contract.

      Upon award of a Request For Proposal, successful bidders will thereafter be referenced as
      “Vendor” or “Contractor” by the Department in all matters and documents related to the resulting
      Contract.

31.   PUBLIC POSTING OF AWARDED CONTRACTS: All Contracts awarded by the Office of
      Contract Sales, Purchasing Services section are posted to the Department’s website. Successful
      bidders and awarded Contract pricing can be found by viewing the Contract’s award tab (Excel
      file). Award tabs can be accessed via the following website:

      http://www.dot.state.oh.us/Divisions/ContractAdmin/Contracts/Lists/PurchaseCurrentContracts/CurrentKs.
      aspx

32.   PUBLIC RECORD: All opened bids and their contents are subject to the Public Records Law,
      Section 149.43 of the Ohio Revised Code. Copies of bid responses must be requested and will
      be provided within a reasonable period of time and at a fee established by the Director of ODOT.
      To expedite and properly respond to such public records requests, a written request must be
      submitted to the Department. To prevent delays in evaluating bids and awarding contracts, such
      requests for recently opened bids, will be honored after a Contract has been executed.

      Bidders may request that specific information, such as trade secrets or proprietary data, be
      designated as confidential and not considered as public record. Material so designated shall
      accompany the bid and be in a sealed container duly marked, and shall be readily separable from
      the bid in order to facilitate public inspection of non-confidential portion. Prices, makes, models,
      catalog numbers of items offered, deliveries and terms of payment cannot be considered as
      confidential. The decision as to whether or not such trade secrets or proprietary data shall be
      disclosed at the bid opening rests solely with the Department.

      Requests to view previously submitted bids must be submitted in writing to either of the following
      addresses:

      Contracts.Purchasing@dot.ohio.gov
      Ohio Department of Transportation
      Office of Contract Sales, Purchasing Services
      1980 West Broad St. Mail Stop 4110
      Columbus, OH 43223

                                                   27
(the remainder of this page has been left intentionally blank)




                             28
                         State of Ohio, Department of Transportation (ODOT)
                            Office of Contract Sales, Purchasing Services

                                    GENERAL DEFINITIONS
When used in this Request For Proposal or any ensuing contract, the following definitions shall apply. If a
conflict exists between these definitions and any definition listed in the bid specifications, the bid
specifications shall prevail.

1.      AGENCY: Ohio Department of Transportation.

2.      AUTHORIZED DISTRIBUTOR: The bidder/vendor who maintains written legal agreements with
        manufacturers/producers to act as their agent and provide supplies, materials, equipment or
        services listed in the bid/contract. The authorized distributor must maintain active and sufficient
        facilities necessary to perform the awarded contract, own title to the goods inventoried within
        these facilities and maintain a true stock of these goods on a continuing basis and in sufficient
        quantity to provide uninterrupted service to ordering agencies.

3.      BIDDER: The company and/or authorized representative of the company who has signed and is
        submitting a bid response and who will be responsible to ensure proper performance of the
        contract awarded pursuant to the bid.

4.      DEPARTMENT: Ohio Department of Transportation

5.      EQUIPMENT: Items, implements and machinery with a predetermined and considerable usage
        life.

6.      F.O.B. PLACE OF DESTINATION: meaning the Vendor pays, and includes the cost of such in
        their bid, and bears the risk for the transportation/delivery of goods delivered to the specified
        locations provided by the Purchaser.

7.      REQUEST FOR PROPOSAL/CONTRACT: All documents, whether attached or incorporated by
        reference, utilized for soliciting bids. Upon completion of the evaluation and award of the bidder's
        response, the Request For Proposal then becomes the contract between ODOT and the
        successful bidder, both governed by the laws of the State of Ohio.

8.      INVOICE: An itemized listing showing delivery of the commodity or performance of the service
        described in the order, and the date of the purchase or rendering of the service, or an itemization
        of the things done, material supplied, or labor furnished, and the sum due pursuant to the contract
        or obligation.

9.      LOWEST RESPONSIVE\RESPONSIBLE BIDDER: A bidder who offers the lowest cost for the
        goods or services listed in the bid; and whose proposal responds to bid specifications in all
        material respects and contains no irregularities or deviations from the specifications which would
        affect the amount of the bid or otherwise give him a competitive advantage; and whose
        experience, financial condition, conduct and performance on previous contracts, facilities,
        management skills evidences their ability to execute the contract properly.

10.     MINORITY BUSINESS ENTERPRISE (MBE): means an individual, partnership, corporation or
        joint venture of any kind that is owned and controlled by U. S. Citizens and residents of Ohio, who
        are and have held themselves out as members of the following socially and economically
        disadvantaged groups: Blacks, American Indians, Hispanics and Asians. Only businesses
        certified by the State of Ohio Equal Opportunity Division in accordance with Section 123.151 of


                                                    29
      the Ohio Revised Code shall be recognized as being MBE certified within the purpose of this
      invitation.

11.   MATERIALS: Items or substance of an expendable or non-expendable nature from which
      something can be made, improved or repaired.




                                              30
13.   PURCHASE: To buy, purchase, installment purchase, rent, lease, lease purchase or otherwise
      acquire equipment, materials, supplies or services. "Purchase" also includes all functions that
      pertain to obtaining of equipment, materials, supplies or services, including description of
      requirements, selection and solicitation of sources, preparation and award of contracts, and all
      phases of contract administration.

14.   SERVICES: The furnishing of labor, time or effort by a person, not involving the delivery of a
      specific end product other than a report which, if provided, is merely incidental   to     the
      required performance. "Services" does not include services furnished pursuant to employment
      agreements or collective bargaining agreements.

15.   SPECIFICATION: Any description of the physical or functional characteristics or of the nature of
      supplies, equipment, service, or insurance. It may include a description of any requirements for
      inspecting, testing, or preparing supplies, equipment, services, or insurance.

16.   SUPPLIES:        Provisions and items normally considered expendable or consumable.14.
              UNBALANCED: Any unit price contained in the bid schedule which is obviously
      unbalanced either above or below reasonable cost analysis and or unreasonably disproportionate
      to current market prices as determined by the Director of ODOT, or if such unbalanced prices are
      contrary to the interest of the department.

17.   VENDOR: The bidder who, upon awarding of a contract, then becomes a Vendor who is
      considered to be a primary source for providing the goods and/or services included in the
      awarded contract and the party to whom payment will be made upon delivery of the goods and/or
      completion of the contract.

18.   SUBVENDOR/SUBCONTRACTOR: An individual, firm or corporation to whom the Vendor
      sublets part of the contract to be performed.


                    (the remainder of this page has been left intentionally blank)




                                                 31
                      State of Ohio, Department of Transportation (ODOT)
                         Office of Contract Sales, Purchasing Services

              STANDARD CONTRACT TERMS AND CONDITIONS
                                       (Last Revised 02/2019)

1.   HEADINGS: The headings used in this Contract are for convenience only and shall not be used
     to affect the interpretation of any of the Contract terms and conditions.

2.   ENTIRE CONTRACT: This Contract consists of the complete Request For Proposal, including
     the Instructions, Terms and Conditions for Bidding, these Standard Contract Terms and
     Conditions, the Special Contract Terms and Conditions, ODOT Cooperative Purchasing Program
     Requirements, mutually executed Signature Page, Specifications and Requirements, awarded
     unit bid pricing, and any written addenda to the Request For Proposal; the completed competitive
     sealed bid, including proper modifications, clarifications and samples; and applicable, valid State
     of Ohio purchase orders or other ordering documents (“Contract”).

3.   APPROPRIATION OF FUNDS. Pursuant to the Constitution of the State of Ohio, Article II
     Section 22, ODOT’s funds are contingent upon the availability of lawful appropriations by the
     Ohio General Assembly. If the Ohio General Assembly fails at any time to continue funding for
     the payments or obligations due hereunder, the Work under this Contract that is affected by the
     lack of funding will terminate and ODOT will have no further obligation to make any payments and
     will be released from its obligations on the date funding expires.

     The current Ohio General Assembly cannot commit a future Ohio General Assembly to a future
     expenditure. If the term of this Contract extends beyond a biennium, the Contract will expire at
     the end of a current biennium and the State may renew this Contract in the next biennium by
     issuing written notice to the Vendor no later than July 1 of the new biennium. The operating
     biennium expires June 30th of each odd-numbered calendar year.

4.   OBM CERTIFICATION: None of the rights, duties, or obligations in this Contract will be binding
     on the Department, and the Vendor will not begin its performance, until all of the following
     conditions have been met:

     1. All statutory provisions under the O.R.C., including Section 126.07, have been met; and
     2. All necessary funds are made available by the Ohio Office of Budget and Management; or
     3. If ODOT is relying on Federal or third-party funds for this Contract the ODOT gives the Vendor
     written notice that such funds have been made available.

5.   CONTRACT MODIFICATIONS: Amendments or modifications to this Contract must be executed
     in writing between the parties and signed by the Director of ODOT. Amendments or modifications
     to this Contract made between the Vendor and other Department personnel shall be void and
     unenforceable.

6.   CONTRACT CONSTRUCTION: Any general rule of construction to the contrary notwithstanding
     this Contract shall be liberally construed in favor of the effect the purpose of this Contract and the
     policy and purposes of the Department. If any provisions in this Contract are found to be
     ambiguous, an interpretation consistent with the purpose of this Contract that would render the
     provision valid shall be favored over any interpretation that would render it invalid.

7.   GOVERNING LAW / SEVERABILITY: This Contract shall be governed by the laws of the State
     of Ohio, and the venue for any disputes will be exclusively with the appropriate court in Franklin
     County, Ohio. If any provision of the Contract or the application of any provision is held by that


                                                  32
      court to be contrary to law, the remaining provisions of the Contract will remain in full force and
      effect.

8.    ASSIGNMENT / DELEGATION: The Vendor will not assign any of its rights nor delegate any of
      its duties under this Contract without the written consent of the Director of ODOT. Any
      assignment or delegation not consented to may be deemed void by the Department.

9.    PLACEMENT OF ORDERS/METHODS OF PAYMENT: The Department shall use either State of
      Ohio Purchase Order or State of Ohio Payment Card (i.e. credit card) to authorize performance
      under this Contract and to issue payments for supplies, products, and/or services acquired.
      Vendors are required to accept both forms of payment. For Department purchases over
      $2,500.00, an official State of Ohio purchase order must be generated and obtain approvals from
      the Office of Budget and Management, the Department of Administrative Services, and the
      Director of Transportation prior to its effectiveness. An approved State of Ohio purchase order will
      be sent to the Vendor and the Vendor will provide the goods and/or services listed on the
      ordering documents and in accordance with the Contract’s terms and conditions. Any order
      placed not using an approved ODOT purchase order or against a State payment card, shall not
      be considered a valid order and may result in denial of payment and/or return of goods at the
      Vendor's expense.

10.   ACCEPTANCE OF ORDERS: The Vendor must accept orders placed by the Department
      pursuant to this Contract up through the last day of the Contract’s effectiveness, inclusive of any
      contract extensions exercised or agreed-upon between the Parties.

11.   BLANKET PURCHASE ORDERS: The Department utilizes blanket purchase orders to pre-
      authorize funding for use on Contracts containing bid items that, due to the urgent nature of
      maintaining the Department’s highways and facilities, are critical to the Department executing its
      mission and objectives. The generation of blanket purchase orders are not used by the
      Department to place a specific order, rather as a means to make funding more readily available
      for use when Contract items are needed. The Vendor shall keep all blanket purchase orders on
      file and make them readily available for use by Department personnel to place orders against.
      When placing orders against a blanket purchase order, the Department will telephone or email
      orders referencing the blanket purchase order and its associated ODOT purchase order number.
      All of the Contract’s terms and conditions shall apply to the Department’s orders referencing a
      blanket purchase order.

      For all blanket purchase orders, quantities and amounts to be purchased from these purchase
      orders is unknown by the Department and Vendors must not construe these purchase orders as a
      commitment to purchase a specific amount of goods and/or services. Accordingly, the
      Department reserves the right to increase or decrease the available funding on these blanket
      purchase orders at its discretion.

12.   DELIVERY INSPECTION AND ACCEPTANCE: Upon pick-up or delivery of any supplies,
      products, and/or services, ODOT retains the right to inspect the product/service prior to final
      acceptance and/or payment for the product/service. ODOT shall have sufficient and reasonable
      time to fully inspect supplies and/or services for compliance. The purpose of the inspection
      process is to ensure that the product/service is in compliance with the specifications set forth in
      the awarded contract. In the event that the product/service does not meet the specifications,
      ODOT shall notify the Vendor for removal/replacement of the product and/or service at the
      Vendor’s expense. ODOT shall retain all rights and remedies as described herein. Wherein
      products ordered by ODOT are delivered to a facility, which is not owned by ODOT and where
      ODOT has contracted with this facility to take delivery of products ordered by ODOT, acceptance
      will occur when the products have been inspected and accepted by ODOT within a reasonable
      amount of time after delivery to the facility. ODOT shall not be responsible for any storage costs
      incurred prior to the inspection and acceptance.


                                                  33
13.   RETURN GOODS POLICY: The Department will apply the following Return Goods Policy on all
      purchases made under the Contract:

             (A) Return goods, when due to Vendor debar (i.e. over-shipment, defective merchandise,
             unapproved substitution, etc.) shall be returned to the Vendor, at the Vendor’s expense.
             The Vendor shall make arrangements to remove the return goods from the Department’s
             premises within five (5) calendar days after notification. The Vendor shall not apply any
             restocking or other charges to the Department. At the option of the Department,
             replacement items may be accepted and will be shipped within five (5) calendar days of
             notification. Failure of the Vendor to arrange for return of the items within the specified
             time will result in the items being deemed as abandoned property and the Department
             will dispose of accordingly.




                                                34
              (B) For orders of custom manufactured items, the Vendor will provide a production
              sample of the item to the Department for acceptance. The production sample will be
              identical to the item to be provided. The Department will provide written acceptance of
              the item prior to the Vendor continuing with production. Once delivery and acceptance
              has been completed and the Department determines for any reason that any remaining
              quantities will not be used, the agency may request the return of the custom
              manufactured items. Acceptance of the return of custom manufactured items will be at
              the option of the Vendor. If the Vendor agrees to the return of these items, the
              Department will be responsible for all costs associated with packaging, shipment and
              transportation, to include the original shipment to the Department and subsequent return
              of goods to the location designated by the Vendor. The Vendor may assess restocking
              fees that are equivalent to restocking fees that are normally assessed to other customers
              or as published by the Vendor. Failure of the Vendor to provide a production sample and
              obtain written approval from the Department will result in the Vendor bearing all
              responsibility and costs associated with the return of these goods.

              (C) Return goods of regular catalog stock merchandise, when due to Department error
              (i.e. over purchase, discontinued use, inventory reduction, etc.) will be accepted by the
              Vendor if notice is given by the Department within six (6) months of delivery and
              acceptance. All items to be returned must be unused and in their original containers and
              in suitable condition for resale. The Department will be responsible for all transportation
              costs associated with both the original shipment of items to the agency and the
              subsequent return of the items to the location designated by the Vendor. The Vendor
              may assess a restocking fee (not to exceed 10%) associated with the return of the items
              to the location designated by the Vendor. Return of regular stock catalog merchandise,
              when delivery and acceptance exceed six (6) months will be at the option of the Vendor.

14.   PRODUCT RECALLS: In the event product delivered has been recalled, seized, or embargoed
      and/or has been determined to be misbranded, adulterated, or found to be unfit for human
      consumption by the packer, processor, manufacturer or by any Department or Federal regulatory
      agency, the Vendor shall be responsible to notify the ODOT Office of Contract Sales, Purchasing
      Services section and all other ordering agencies/entities within two business days after notice has
      been given. Vendor shall, at the option of the Department, either reimburse the purchase price or
      provide an equivalent replacement product at no additional cost. Vendor shall be responsible for
      removal and/or replacement of the affected product within a reasonable time as determined by
      the ordering agency. At the option of the ordering agency, Vendor may be required to reimburse
      storage and/or handling fees to be calculated from time of delivery and acceptance to actual
      removal. Vendor will bear all costs associated with the removal and proper disposal of the
      affected product. Failure to reimburse the purchase price or provide equivalent replacement
      product will be considered a default.

15.   PRODUCT SUBSTITUTION: In the event a specified product listed in the Contract becomes
      unavailable or cannot be supplied by the Vendor for any reason (except as provided for in the
      Force Majeure clause), a product deemed in writing by the Department to be equal to or better
      than the specified product must be substituted by the Vendor at no additional cost or expense to
      the Department. Unless otherwise specified, any substitution of product prior to the Department’s
      written approval may be cause for termination of Contract.

      The Department reserves the right to deny any substitution request that it is deemed to not be in
      the best interest of the Department. In these instances, the Department may seek substitute
      products from another supplier and assess the difference in cost, if any, as damages against the
      Vendor for their material breach.



                                                 35
16.   INVOICE REQUIREMENTS: The Vendor must submit an original, proper invoice to the office
      designated on the purchase order as the “bill to” address. To be a proper invoice, the invoice
      must include the following information: 1. The ODOT purchase order number authorizing the
      delivery of products or services. 2. A description of what the Vendor delivered, including, as
      applicable, the time period, serial number, unit price, quantity, and total price of the products and
      services. 3. The Contract number pursuant to the deliverable.




                                                  36
17.   DEFECTIVE INVOICES: In the event the Department is in receipt of defective or improper
      invoices, the
      Department shall postpone payment pursuant to Section 126.30 of the Ohio Revised Code.
      Invoices shall be returned to the Vendor noting areas for correction. If such notification of defect
      is sent, the required payment date shall be thirty (30) calendar days after receipt of the corrected
      invoice.

18.   PAYMENT DUE DATE: Payments under this Contract will be due on the 30th calendar day after
      the date of actual receipt of a proper invoice in the office designated to receive the invoice, or the
      date the service is delivered and accepted in accordance with the terms of this Contract. The date
      of the warrant issued in payment will be considered the date payment is made. Interest on late
      payments will be paid in accordance with O.R.C. Section 126.30.

19.   INSURANCE POLICIES: By way of provision in this Contract to maintain specific minimum levels
      of insurance coverage(s) (e.g. Commercial General liability, Auto liability, Public liability, Property
      Damage, etc.), the Vendor shall provide to Department upon request evidence of such insurance
      required to be carried by these provisions, including any endorsement affecting the additional
      insured status, is in full force and effect and that premiums therefore have been paid. Such
      evidence shall be furnished by the Vendor within two (2) business days and on the insurance
      industry's standard ACORD Form (Certificate of Insurance) or a certified copy of the original
      policy. The Certificate of Insurance or certified copy of the policy must contain an endorsement
      naming the State of Ohio, Department of Transportation, its officers, agents, employees, and
      servants as additionally insured, but only with respect to Work performed for the Department
      under this Contract, at no cost to Department. Vendor shall notify the Department within ten (10)
      calendar days of receipt of a notice of cancellation, expiration, or any reduction in coverage, or if
      the insurer commences proceedings or has proceedings commenced against it, indicating the
      insurer is insolvent. Vendor shall provide to the Department evidence of a replacement policy at
      least five (5) calendar days prior to the effective date of such cancellation, expiration, or reduction
      in coverage.

      All required insurance policies shall be maintained at Vendor’s sole expense and in full force for
      the complete term of the Contract, including any warranty periods. Reference 107.12 the
      Construction & Materials Specification handbook.

20.   TAXATION: ODOT is exempt from federal excise taxes and all Department and local taxes,
      unless otherwise provided herein. ODOT does not agree to pay any taxes on commodities,
      goods, or services acquired from any Vendor.

21.   CONTRACT TERMINATION: If a Vendor fails to perform any one of its obligations under this
      Contract, it will be in breach of contract and the Department may terminate this Contract in
      accordance with this section. Notices of contract termination shall be made in writing. The
      termination will be effective on the date delineated by the Department.

              a. Termination for Breach. If Vendor’s breach is unable to be cured in a reasonable
              time, the Department may terminate the Contract by written notice to the Vendor.

              b. Termination for Un-remedied Breach. If Vendor’s breach may be cured within a
              reasonable time, the Department will provide written notice to Vendor specifying the
              breach and the time within which Vendor must correct the breach. If Vendor fails to cure
              the specified breach within the time required, the Department may terminate the
              Contract. If the Department does not give timely notice of breach to Vendor, the
              Department has not waived any of the Department’s rights or remedies concerning the
              breach.


                                                   37
 c. Termination for Persistent Breach. The Department may terminate this Contract by
written notice to Vendor for defaults that are cured, but persistent. “Persistent” means
three or more breaches. After the Department has notified Vendor of its third breach, the
Department may terminate this Contract without providing Vendor with an opportunity to
cure. The three or more breaches are not required to be related to each other in any way.

d. Termination for Endangered Performance. The Department may terminate this
Contract by written notice to the Vendor if the Department determines that the
performance of the Contract is endangered through no fault of the Department.

e. Termination for Financial Instability. The Department may terminate this Contract
by written notice to the Vendor if a petition in bankruptcy or a Federal or State tax lien
has been filed by or against the Vendor.

 f. Termination for Delinquency, Violation of Law. The Department may terminate this
Contract by written notice, if it determines that Vendor is delinquent in its payment of
federal, Department or local taxes, workers’ compensation, insurance premiums,
unemployment compensation contributions, child support, court costs or any other
obligation owed to a Department agency or political subdivision. The Department also
may cancel this Contract, if it determines that Vendor has violated any law during the
performance of this Contract. However, the Department may not terminate this Contract if
the Vendor has entered into a repayment agreement with which the Vendor is current.

 g. Termination for Subcontractor Breach. The Department may terminate this
Contract for the breach of the Vendor or any of its subcontractors. The Vendor will be
solely responsible for satisfying any claims of its subcontractors for any suspension or
termination and will indemnify the Department for any liability to them. Subcontractors will
hold the Department harmless for any damage caused to them from a suspension or
termination. The subcontractors will look solely to the Vendor for any compensation to
which they may be entitled.

h. Termination for Vendor’s Failure to Pay Material Suppliers. Pursuant to Section
4113.61 of the Ohio Revised Code, Vendors shall promptly pay material suppliers, within
ten (10) calendar days of receipt of payment from the State of Ohio, for materials ordered
and delivered as a result of this contract. A Vendor unable to furnish bid items because of
non-payment issues related to a material supplier shall constitute grounds for the Director
of ODOT to terminate this contract immediately. A Vendor may, at the discretion of the
Department, be given an amount of time, amount shall be specified by the Department in
writing, to furnish past due payment to the material supplier before termination shall
occur.

j. Failure to Maintain MBE Certification. Pursuant to O.R.C. Section 125.081, the State
may set aside a bid for supplies or services for participation only by minority business
enterprises (MBE’s) certified by the State of Ohio, Equal Opportunity Coordinator. After
award of the Contract, it is the responsibility of the MBE Vendor to maintain certification
as a MBE. If the Vendor fails to renew its certification and/or is decertified by the State of
Ohio, Equal Opportunity Coordinator, the State may immediately cancel the Contract.

k. Failure to Maintain Licensure. The Vendor’s failure to maintain the proper license(s)
to perform the services or provide the goods prescribed by this Contract shall be grounds
to terminate this Contract without prior notice.

l. Qualified Products Listing and Approved Products Listing. Any products or
supplies removed from a specific qualified products listing/approved product listing, by
either the Department, government, or governing body throughout the duration of the


                                     38
              Contract shall be removed from the Contract effective on the date of removal from the
              respective listing.

22.   NOTICE OF BREACH: Each party of this Contract has an obligation to provide written notice
      when it is determined by one party that the other party is in default of this Contract. A notice of
      ODOT’s default of this Contract must be sent to the Procurement Manager of the ODOT Office of
      Contract Sales.

23.   CONTRACT SUSPENSION: A Vendor who fails to perform any one of its obligations under this
      Contract will be in breach. In these instances, ODOT may choose to suspend the Vendor from
      the contract rather than terminate the Contract.

      In the case of a suspension for ODOT’s convenience, the amount of compensation due the
      Vendor for work performed before the suspension will be determined in the same manner as
      provided in this section for termination for ODOT’s convenience or the Vendor may be entitled to
      compensation for work performed before the suspension, less any damage to ODOT resulting
      from the Vendor’s breach of this Contract or other fault.

      The notice of suspension, whether with or without cause, will be effective immediately on the
      Vendor’s receipt of the notice. The Vendor will immediately prepare a report and deliver it to
      ODOT which will include a detailed description of work completed, percentage of project
      completion, estimated time for delivery of all orders received to date, and costs incurred by the
      Vendor.

24.   CANCELLATION FOR CONVENIENCE: The Department reserves the right to cancel and
      terminate this Contract, in whole or in part, without penalty, upon thirty (30) days written notice to
      an awarded vendor. In the event the initial contract period is for more than 12 months, the
      resulting contract may be terminated by either party, without penalty, after the initial 12 months of
      the contract period and upon a minimum of sixty (60) days written notice to the other party.
      Cancellations exercised in accordance with this section shall not relieve the Vendor of the
      obligation to deliver and/or perform on all outstanding orders issued prior to the effective date of
      cancellation.

25.   CONTRACT DAMAGES: The Department may assess, at a minimum but not limited to, the
      following damages against a Vendor:

              A.       ACTUAL DAMAGES: Vendor is liable to the State of Ohio for all actual and
              direct damages caused by Vendor’s breach. The Department may substitute supplies or
              services, from a third party, for those that were to be provided by Vendor. In accordance
              with Ohio Revised Code §5513.05(c), the Department may recover the costs associated
              with acquiring substitute supplies or services, less any expenses or costs saved by
              Vendor’s breach, from Vendor.

              B.       LIQUIDATED DAMAGES: If actual and direct damages are uncertain or difficult
              to determine, the Department may recover liquidated damages in the amount of 1% of
              the value of the order, deliverable or milestone that is the subject of the breach for every
              day that the breach is not cured by the Vendor. If Delay of the cure is caused by ODOT,
              the delivery date shall be extended accordingly to offset such delays. Approval to extend
              any scheduled delivery date(s) shall be at the sole discretion of ODOT.

              C.       DEDUCTION OF DAMAGES FROM CONTRACT PRICE: The Department may
              deduct all or any part of the damages resulting from Vendor’s breach from any part of the
              price still due on the contract, upon prior written notice issued to the Vendor by the
              Department.



                                                   39
              D. INCIDENTAL/CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES: Pursuant to Section 5513.05 of the
              Ohio Revised Code, the Department may recover from a Vendor who fails to promptly
              provide conforming articles, any incidental or consequential damages as defined in
              Section 1302.89 of the Ohio Revised Code, incurred by the Department in promptly
              obtaining the conforming articles.

26.   CONTRACT TERM EXTENSIONS: ODOT reserves the right to unilaterally extend this Contract
      up to one (1) calendar month beyond the original contract expiration date at the original unit bid
      prices awarded. Contract extensions beyond one (1) calendar month shall be executed by means
      of written, mutual agreement with the Contract Vendor.

27.   FIRM, FIXED PRICE CONTRACT: Unless otherwise specified in the bidding documents, this
      Contract is a Firm, Fixed-Price Contract. The Vendor will be required to provide to the
      Department with the materials, supplies, equipment and/or services at the awarded bid price(s)
      for the entire duration of the contract, and any extensions thereto.

28.   FORCE MAJEURE: If the Department or Vendor is unable to perform any part of its obligations
      under this Contract by reason of force majeure, the party will be excused from its obligations, to
      the extent that its performance is prevented by force majeure, for the duration of the event. The
      party must remedy with all reasonable dispatch the cause preventing it from carrying out its
      obligations under this Contract. The term “force majeure” means without limitation: acts of God;
      such as epidemics; lightning; earthquakes; fires; storms; hurricanes; tornadoes; floods; washouts;
      droughts; any other severe weather; explosions; restraint of government and people; war; labor
      strikes; and other like events.

29.   EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY: The Vendor will comply with all Department and
      federal laws regarding equal employment opportunity, including O.R.C. Section 125.111 and all
      related Executive Orders.

30.   ANTITRUST ASSIGNMENT TO THE DEPARTMENT: Vendor assigns to the State of Ohio,
      through the Department of Transportation, all of its rights to any claims and causes of action the
      Vendor now has or may acquire under Department or federal antitrust laws if the claims or
      causes of action relate to the supplies or services provided under this Contract. Additionally, the
      State of Ohio will not pay excess charges resulting from antitrust violations by Vendor’s suppliers
      and subcontractors.

31.   CONFIDENTIALITY: The Vendor may learn of information, documents, data, records, or other
      material that is confidential in the performance of this Contract. The Vendor may not disclose any
      information obtained by it as a result of this Contract, without the written permission of the
      Department. The Vendor must assume that all Department information, documents, data, records
      or other material is confidential.

      The Vendor’s obligation to maintain the confidentiality of the information will not apply where it:
      (1) was already in the Vendor’s possession before disclosure by the Department, and it was
      received by the Vendor without the obligation of confidence; (2) is independently developed by
      the Vendor; (3) is or becomes publicly available without breach of this Contract; (4) is rightfully
      received by the Vendor from a third party without an obligation of confidence; (5) is disclosed by
      the Vendor with the written consent of the Department; or (6) is released in accordance with a
      valid order of a court or governmental agency, provided that the Vendor (a) notifies the
      Department of such order immediately upon receipt of the order and (b) makes a reasonable
      effort to obtain a protective order from the issuing court or agency limiting disclosure and use of
      the confidential information solely for the purposes intended to be serviced by the original order of
      production. The Vendor will return all originals of any information and destroy any copies it has
      made on termination or expiration of this Contract.



                                                  40
      The Vendor will be liable for the disclosure of any confidential information. The parties agree that
      the disclosure of confidential information of the Department’s may cause the Department
      irreparable damage for which remedies other than injunctive relief may be inadequate, and the
      Vendor agrees that in the event of a breach of the obligations hereunder, the Department shall be
      entitled to temporary and permanent injunctive relief to enforce this provision without the
      necessity of providing actual damages. This provision shall not, however, diminish or alter any
      right to claim and recover.

32.   DRUG-FREE WORKPLACE: The Vendor agrees to comply with all applicable Department and
      federal laws regarding drug-free workplace and shall make a good faith effort to ensure that all its
      employees, while working on Department property, will not purchase, transfer, use or possess
      illegal drugs or alcohol or abuse prescription drugs in any way.

33.   WORKERS’ COMPENSATION: Workers’ compensation insurance, as required by Ohio law or
      the laws of any other Department where work under this Contract will be done. The Vendor will
      also maintain employer’s liability insurance with at least a $1,000,000.00 limit.

34.   OHIO ETHICS LAW: Vendor agrees that it is currently in compliance and will continue to adhere
      to the requirements of Ohio Ethics law as provided by Section 102.03 and 102.04 of the Ohio
      Revised Code.

35.   PUBLICITY: The Vendor will not advertise that it is doing business with the Department or use
      this Contract as a marketing or sales tool without prior, written consent of the Department. This
      provision includes marketing or sales tools related to the ODOT Cooperative Purchasing
      Program.

36.   STRICT PERFORMANCE: The failure of either party, at any time to demand strict performance
      by the other party of any of the terms of this Contract, will not be construed as a waiver of any
      such term and either party may at any time demand strict and complete performance by the other
      party.




                                                  41
37.   SUBCONTRACTING. The Department recognizes that it may be necessary for the Vendor to use
      subcontractors to perform portions of the work under the Contract. In those circumstances, the
      Vendor shall submit a list identifying its subcontractors or joint venture partners performing
      portions of the work under the Contract. If any changes occur during the term of the Contract, the
      Vendor shall supplement its list of subcontractors or joint venture business partners. In addition,
      all subcontractors or joint venture business partners agree to be bound by all of the Terms and
      Conditions and specifications of the Contract. The Department reserves the right to reject any
      subcontractor submitted by the Vendor. All subcontracts will be at the sole expense of the Vendor
      and the Vendor will be solely responsible for payment of its subcontractors. The Vendor assumes
      responsibility for all sub-contracting and third party manufacturer work performed under the
      Contract. In addition, Vendor will cause all subcontractors to be bound by all of the Terms and
      Conditions and specifications of the Contract. The Vendor will be the sole point of contact with
      regard to all contractual matters.

38.   SURVIVORSHIP: All sections herein relating to payment, confidentiality, license and ownership,
      indemnification, publicity, construction warranties, limitations of warranties and limitations on
      damages shall survive the termination of this Contract.

39.   GENERAL REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES: The Vendor warrants that the
      recommendations, guidance, and performance of the Vendor under this Contract will:

              1. Be in accordance with the sound professional standards and the requirements of this
              Contract and without any material defect.

              2. No services, products or supplies will infringe on the intellectual property rights of any
              third party.

              3. All warranties are in accordance with Vendor’s standard business practices attached.

              4. That the products or supplies hereunder are merchantable and fit for the particular
              purpose described in this contract. Additionally, with respect to the Vendor’s activities
              under this Contract, the Vendor warrants that:

              5. The Vendor has the right to enter into this Contract.

              6. The Vendor has not entered into any other contracts or employment relationships that
              restrict the Vendor’s ability to perform under this Contract.

              7. The Vendor will observe and abide by all applicable laws and regulations, including
              those of the Department regarding conduct on any premises under the Department’s
              control.

              8. The Vendor has good and marketable title to any products or supplies delivered under
              this Contract and which title passes to the Department.

               9. The Vendor has the right and ability to grant the license granted in products or
              supplies in which title does not pass to the Department. If any services of the Vendor or
              any products or supplies fails to comply with these warranties, and the Vendor is so
              notified in writing, the Vendor will correct such failure with all due speed or will refund the
              amount of the compensation paid for the services, products or supplies. The Vendor will
              also indemnify the Department for any direct damages and claims by third parties based
              on breach of these warranties.



                                                   42
40.   VENDOR’S WARRANTY AGAINST AN UNRESOLVED FINDING FOR RECOVERY: Vendor
      warrants that it is not subject to an unresolved finding for recovery under O.R.C. Section 9.24. If
      the warranty was false on the date the parties signed this Contract, the Contract is void ab initio.

41.   LIMITATION OF LIABILITY: Notwithstanding any limitation provisions contained in the
      documents and materials incorporated by reference into this contract, the Vendor agrees that the
      Vendor shall be liable for all direct damages due to the fault or negligence of the Vendor.




                                                  43
42.   INDEMNITY: The Vendor will indemnify the Department for any and all claims, damages,
      lawsuits, costs, judgments, expenses, and any other liabilities resulting from bodily injury to any
      person (including injury resulting in death) or damage to property that may arise out of or are
      related to Vendor’s performance under this Contract, providing such bodily injury or property
      damage is due to the negligence of the Vendor, its employees, agents, or subcontractors.
      Reference 107.12 the Construction & Materials Specification handbook.

      The Vendor will also indemnify the Department against any claim of infringement of a copyright,
      patent, trade secret, or similar intellectual property rights based on the Department’s proper use
      of any products or supplies under this Contract. This obligation of indemnification will not apply
      where the Department has modified or misused the products or supplies and the claim of
      infringement, is based on the modification or misuse. The Department agrees to give the Vendor
      notice of any such claim as soon as reasonably practicable and to give the Vendor the authority
      to settle or otherwise defend any such claim upon consultation with and approval by the Office of
      the Department Attorney General. If a successful claim of infringement is made, or if the Vendor
      reasonably believes that an infringement claim that is pending may actually succeed, the Vendor
      will take one (1) of the following four (4) actions:

      1. Modify the products or supplies so that is no longer infringing;
      2. Replace products or supplies with an equivalent or better item;
      3. Acquire the right for the Department to use the infringing products or supplies as it was
      intended for the Department to use under this Contract; or
      4. Remove the products or supplies and refund the fee the Department paid for the products or
      supplies and the fee for any other products or supplies that required the availability of the
      infringing products or supplies for it to be useful to the Department.

43.   AUDITS: The Vendor must keep all financial records in a manner consistent with generally
      accepted accounting principles. Additionally, the Vendor must keep separate business records for
      this Contract, including records of disbursements and obligations incurred that must be supported
      by contracts, invoices, vouchers and other data as appropriate. During the period covered by this
      Contract and until the expiration of three (3) years after final payment under this Contract, the
      Vendor agrees to provide the Department, its duly authorized representatives or any person,
      agency or instrumentality providing financial support to the work undertaken hereunder, with
      access to and the right to examine any books, documents, papers and records of the Vendor
      involving transactions related to this Contract. The Vendor shall, for each subcontract in excess of
      two thousand five hundred ($2,500), require its subcontractor to agree to the same provisions of
      this Article. The Vendor may not artificially divide contracts with its subcontractors to avoid
      requiring subcontractors to agree to this provision. The Vendor must provide access to the
      requested records no later than (5) five business days after the request by the Department or any
      party with audit rights. If an audit reveals any material deviation from the Contract requirements,
      and misrepresentations or any overcharge to the Department or any other provider of funds for
      the Contract, the Department or other party will be entitled to recover damages, as well as the
      cost of the audit.

44.   INDEPENDENT CONTRACTOR ACKNOWLEDGEMENT: It is fully understood and agreed that
      Vendor is an independent contractor and is not an agent, servant, or employee of the State of
      Ohio or the Ohio Department of Transportation. Vendor declares that it is engaged as an
      independent business and has complied with all applicable federal, state, and local laws
      regarding business permits and licenses of any kind, including but not limited to any insurance
      coverage, workers’ compensation, or unemployment compensation that is required in the normal
      course of business and will assume all responsibility for any federal, state, municipal or other tax
      liabilities. Additionally, Vendor understands that as an independent contractor, it is not a public
      employee and is not entitled to contributions from the State to any public employee retirement
      system.

                                                  44
TRADE: Pursuant to R.C. 9.76(B), Vendor warrants that Vendor is not boycotting any jurisdiction
with whom the State of Ohio can enjoy open trade, including Israel, and will not do so during the
term of this Contract.




                                           45
45.   NON-DISCRIMINATION/COMPLIANCE WITH APPLICABLE LAWS:

      Vendor agrees that Vendor, any subcontractor, and any person acting on behalf of Vendor or a
      subcontractor, shall not discriminate, by reason of race, color, religion, sex (including pregnancy,
      gender identification and sexual orientation), age (40 years or older), disability, military status,
      national origin, or ancestry against any citizen of this state in the employment of any person
      qualified and available to perform the Work. Vendor further agrees that Vendor, any
      subcontractor, and any person acting on behalf of Vendor or a subcontractor shall not, in any
      manner, discriminate against, intimidate, or retaliate against any employee hired for the
      performance of the Work on account of race, color, religion, sex (including pregnancy, gender
      identification and sexual orientation), age, disability, military status, national origin, or ancestry.

      During the performance of this Contract, the Vendor, for itself, its assignees, and successors in
      interest agrees to comply with the Federal Requirements as follows:

              1.       Vendor will ensure that applicants are hired and that employees are treated
                       during employment without regard to their race, religion, color, sex (including
                       pregnancy, gender identification and sexual orientation), national origin
                       (ancestry), disability, genetic information, age (40 years or older), or military
                       status (past, present, or future). Such action shall include, but not be limited to,
                       the following: Employment, Upgrading, Demotion, or Transfer; Recruitment or
                       Recruitment Advertising; Layoff or Termination; Rates of Pay or other forms of
                       Compensation; and Selection for Training including Apprenticeship.

              2.       Vendor agrees to post in conspicuous places, available to employees and
                       applicants for employment, notices setting forth the provisions of this
                       nondiscrimination clause. Vendor will, in all solicitations or advertisements for
                       employees placed by or on behalf of Vendor, state that all qualified applicants will
                       receive consideration for employment without regard to race, religion, color, sex
                       (including pregnancy, gender identification and sexual orientation), national origin
                       (ancestry), disability, genetic information, age (40 years or older), or military
                       status (past, present, or future).

              3.       Vendor agrees to fully comply with Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, 42
                       USC Sec. 2000. Vendor shall not discriminate on the basis of race, color,
                       national origin, sex (including pregnancy, gender identification and sexual
                       orientation), age, disability, low-income status, or limited English proficiency in its
                       programs or activities. The Director of Transportation may monitor the Vendor’s
                       compliance with Title VI.

              4.       Compliance with Regulations: The Vendor (hereinafter includes consultants) will
                       comply with the Acts and Regulations relative to Non-discrimination in Federally-
                       assisted programs of the U.S. Department of Transportation, Federal Highway
                       Administration (FHWA), as they may be amended from time to time, which are
                       herein incorporated by reference and made a part of this contract.

              5.       Nondiscrimination: The Vendor, with regard to the work performed by it during
                       the contract, will not discriminate on the grounds of race, color, national origin
                       (ancestry), sex (including pregnancy, gender identification and sexual
                       orientation), age (40 years or older), disability, low-income status, or limited
                       English proficiency in the selection and retention of subcontractors, including
                       procurements of materials and leases of equipment. The Vendor will not
                       participate directly or indirectly in the discrimination prohibited by the Acts and
                       the Regulations as set forth in section 10. below, including employment practices

                                                   46
            when the contract covers any activity, project, or program set forth in Appendix B
            of 49 CFR Part 21.

    6.      Solicitations for Subcontractors, including Procurements of Materials and
            Equipment: In all solicitations, either by competitive bidding, or negotiation made
            by the Vendor for work to be performed under a subcontract, including
            procurements of materials, or leases of equipment, each potential subcontractor
            or supplier will be notified by the Vendor of the Vendor’s obligations under this
            contract and the Acts and the Regulations relative to nondiscrimination on the
            grounds of race, color, national origin (ancestry), sex (including pregnancy,
            gender identification and sexual orientation), age (40 years or older), disability,
            low-income status, or limited English proficiency.

    7.      Information and Reports: The Vendor will provide all information and reports
            required by the Acts, the Regulations, and directives issued pursuant thereto,
            and will permit access to its books, records, accounts, other sources of
            information, and its facilities as may be determined by the Ohio Department of
            Transportation (hereinafter “ODOT”) or FHWA to be pertinent to ascertain
            compliance with such Acts, Regulations, and instructions.                Where any
            information required of a Vendor is in the exclusive possession of another who
            fails or refuses to furnish this information, the Vendor will so certify to ODOT or
            FHWA, as appropriate, and will set forth what efforts it has made to obtain the
            information.

    8.      Sanctions for Noncompliance: In the event of the Vendor’s noncompliance with
            the nondiscrimination provisions of this contract, ODOT will impose such contract
            sanctions as it or FHWA may determine to be appropriate, including, but not
            limited to:

                    a.   Withholding of payments to the Vendor under the contract until the
                         Vendor complies, and/or
                     b. Cancellation, termination or suspension of the contract, in whole or in
                         part.
    9.      Incorporation of Provisions: The Vendor will include the provisions of sections 1.
            through 9. in every subcontract, including procurements of materials and leases
            of equipment, unless exempt by the Acts, the Regulations, and directives issued
            pursuant thereto. The Vendor will take action with respect to any subcontract or
            procurement as ODOT or FHWA may direct as a means of enforcing such
            provisions including sanctions for noncompliance. Provided, that if the Vendor
            becomes involved in, or is threatened with litigation by a subcontractor, or
            supplier because of such direction, the Vendor may request ODOT to enter into
            any litigation to protect the interests of ODOT. In addition, the Vendor may
            request the United States to enter into the litigation to protect the interests of the
            United States.

    10.     During the performance of this contact, the Vendor, for itself, its assignees, and
    successors in interest, consultants and sub-contractors, agrees to comply with the
    following non-discrimination statutes and authorities; including but not limited to:

    Pertinent Non-Discrimination Authorities:

•   Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (42 U.S.C. § 2000d et seq., 78 stat. 252) (prohibits
    discrimination on the basis of race, color, national origin); and 49 CFR Part 21




                                        47
•   The Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act of 1970
    (42 U.S.C. § 4601) (prohibits unfair treatment of persons displaced or whose property
    has been acquired because of Federal or Federal-Aid programs and projects)
•   Federal-Aid Highway Act of 1973 (23 U.S.C. § 324 et seq.) (prohibits discrimination on
    the basis of sex)
•   Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. § 794 et seq.), as amended
    (prohibits discrimination on the basis of disability) and 49 CFR Part 27
•   The Age Discrimination Act of 1975, as amended (42 U.S.C. § 6101 et seq.) (prohibits
    discrimination on the basis of age)
•   Airport and Airway Improvement Act of 1982 (49 U.S.C. § 471, Section 47123), as
    amended (prohibits discrimination based on race, creed, color, national origin, or sex)
•   The Civil Rights Restoration Act of 1987 (PL 100-209) (broadened the scope, coverage,
    and applicability of Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, the Age Discrimination Act of
    1975, and Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, by expanding the definition of
    the terms “programs or activities” to include all of the programs or activities of Federal-Aid
    recipients, sub-recipients, and contractors, whether such programs or activities are
    Federally funded or not)
•   Titles II and III of the Americans with Disabilities Act (42 U.S.C. §§ 12131-12189), as
    implemented by Department of Transportation regulations at 49 CFR parts 37 and 38
    (prohibits discrimination on the basis of disability in the operation of public entities, public
    and private transportation systems, places of public accommodation, and certain testing
    entities)
•   The Federal Aviation Administration’s Non-Discrimination Statute (49 U.S.C. § 47123)
    (prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, national origin, and sex)
•   Executive Order 12898, Federal Actions to Address Environmental Justice in Minority
    Populations and Low-Income Populations (ensures non-discrimination against minority
    populations by discouraging programs, policies, and activities with disproportionately high
    and adverse human health or environmental effects on minority and low-income
    populations)
•   Executive Order 13166, Improving Access to Services for People with Limited English
    Proficiency, and resulting agency guidance, national origin discrimination includes
    discrimination because of limited English proficiency (LEP). To ensure compliance with
    Title VI, you must take reasonable steps to ensure that LEP persons have meaningful
    access to your programs (70 Fed. Reg. at 74087 to 74100)
•   Title VIII of the Civil Rights Act of 1968 (Fair Housing Act), as amended (prohibits
    discrimination in the sale, rental, and financing of dwellings on the basis of race, color,
    religion, sex, national origin, disability, or familial status (presence of child under the age
    of 18 and pregnant women)
•   Title IX of the Education Amendments Act of 1972, as amended (20 U.S.C. 1681 et seq.)
    (prohibits discrimination on the basis of sex in education programs or activities)
•   Uniformed Services Employment and Reemployment Rights Act of 1994 (USERRA 38
    U.S.C. 4301-4335) (prohibits discrimination on the basis of present, past or future military
    service)
•   Genetic Information Nondiscrimination Act (GINA) (29 CFR Part 1635, 42 U.S.C. 2000ff)



           (the remainder of this page has been left intentionally blank)




                                         48
                 State of Ohio, Department of Transportation (ODOT)

                        Office of Contract Sales, Purchasing Services

                                           SIGNATURE PAGE
                                         Request For Proposal #530-20
                                             Commodity/Service:

This Signature Page must be completed and submitted with a Bidder’s sealed bid package to serve as
acknowledgement to the Department that the Bidder understands and will comply with all terms, conditions, and
requirements in submitting a bid (offer) for the above-referenced Request For Proposal.

Furthermore, the execution and submission of this Signature Page shall serve as acknowledgment that the Bidder
will enter into a Contract with the State of Ohio, Department of Transportation if selected for award of the above-
referenced Request For Proposal, and understands, upon Contract award, it shall be bound by all terms and
conditions included in this Request For Proposal.

The person signing and executing this Signature Page below acknowledges that he/she is signing on behalf of their
Company in a representative capacity and hereby warrants that he/she has been duly authorized by his/her Company
to submit this formal bid (offer) and is authorized to execute Contracts on such Company’s behalf.
                                          (Please execute below using blue ink)

Company (Bidder) Name: ________________________________________________________

Original Signature: _____________________________________________________________

Print Name of Officer: ___________________________________________________________

Title of Signing Officer: __________________________________________________________

Date: _________________________________________

                FOR USE BY THE OHIO DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION ONLY:

Pursuant to Section 30 of the Instructions, Terms and Conditions for Bidding, a signature below by the Director of
ODOT shall serve as the Department’s formal acceptance of the bidder’s offer and will effectively form ODOT
Contract 530-20 between the State of Ohio, Department of Transportation and the above successful bidder
(company):



______________________________________                                __________________________
Jack Marchbanks, Ph. D.                                                        Date
Director
State of Ohio, Department of Transportation




                                                       49
