 Submitting a
  Responsive
   Proposal



Develop an effective
and winning proposal
                                                                             Submitting a Responsive Proposal



Learning Objectives
At the end of this module, you will be able to:
     Prepare an effective response to a Request for Proposal.
     Position your business better to compete for and win government contracts.



About FDIC Small Business Resource Effort
The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) recognizes the important contributions made by
small, veteran, and minority and women-owned businesses to our economy. For that reason, we strive
to provide small businesses with opportunities to contract with the FDIC. In furtherance of this goal, the
FDIC has initiated the FDIC Small Business Resource Effort to assist the small vendors that provide
products, services, and solutions to the FDIC.

The objective of the Small Business Resource Effort is to provide information and the tools small vendors
need to become better positioned to compete for contracts and subcontracts at the FDIC. To achieve
this objective, the Small Business Resource Effort references outside resources critical for qualified
vendors, leverages technology to provide education according to perceived needs, and offers
connectivity through resourcing, accessibility, counseling, coaching, and guidance where applicable.

This product was developed by the FDIC Office of Minority and Woman Inclusion (OMWI). OMWI has
responsibility for oversight of the Small Business Resource Effort.



Executive Summary
A Request for Proposal (RFP, as it’s more commonly known) is a document issued when an organization
wants to buy something and chooses to make the specifications available to only a few or many
businesses so they can submit bids. With rising competition, more organizations are using the RFP
response as a basis for comparison between different contactors to evaluate the best available solution.
An effective and competitive RFP response is critical to winning new business. The following module
highlights key attributes of an effective response to an RFP so you can be successful at winning the
contract.



Understanding the Types of Solicitations
If a government organization has a need for goods or services for which there is no existing contract, it
solicits bids from potential contractors. A government agency usually solicits proposals from businesses
having previous experience or interest in the relevant field. The contracting agency’s technical staff
develops a work statement describing the mission objective and setting forth certain work statements




FDIC OMWI Education Module: Submitting a Responsive Proposal                                   Page 2 of 14
                                                                                Submitting a Responsive Proposal



or specifications to which offeror’s proposals must conform. A solicitation can take various forms,
including:

        Request for Information (RFI) and Request for Quotation (RFQ): Some organizations publish a
         Request for Quotation (RFQ) when all they are interested in is the price, while others publish a
         Request for Information (RFI) when they need information prior to issuing a solicitation. When
         the government considers procuring goods or services from contractors, but is not sure about
         specifications or methodologies, they may issue a Request for Information (RFI) before they
         release the Request for Proposals (RFP).
        Request for Proposal (RFP): The RFP is a solicitation process in which vendors are asked to
         submit sealed bids. The RFP specifies what the buyer (government organization) needs, how the
         buyer is going to evaluate the bids, and all the terms and conditions surrounding the subsequent
         contract. RFPs are sometimes referred to as “solicitations” and include the following data: (a)
         listing of contract specifications; (b) contractual information; (c) profile information about the
         supplier; and (d) pricing documentation.



Responding to an RFI/RFQ
An RFI/RFQ provides you with an opportunity to make suggestions regarding what the government
should include in the future RFP if it goes forward. It gives you an opportunity to show the government
that you are qualified, responsive, and helpful. If the opportunity matches your skills and interests, it is
highly recommended that you respond to the RFI/RFQ. The government agency will most likely only
solicit an RFP from businesses who have participated in the RFI/RFQ.

In addition to gathering basic information, an RFI/RFQ is often sent to a broad base of potential
suppliers for the purpose of conditioning supplier's minds, developing strategy, building a database, and
preparing for an RFP, RFI, or RFQ. When responding to an RFI/RFQ, you can try to influence several
things in order to give your company a competitive advantage should an RFP be released. Areas to
influence for a competitive advantage include:

        Technical Scope: Try to include requirements that will limit the field of competitors. Suggest
         requirements that are unique to your service offering.
        Specifications: Recommend items that you can comply with, but will be difficult for others.
        Contract Type: If you have a preference, here is your chance to make a recommendation.
        Small Business Requirement: If you are a small business, and the agency operates under the
         Federal Acquisitions Regulation (FAR) Manual, you can recommend that the RFP be released as a
         small business set-aside. If you are not a small business, point out aspects that would be difficult
         for a small business to provide. Then, state your willingness to team with a small business if
         allowed.
        Pricing: With many requests for information or quotations, data gathered early on can have a
         big impact on the price. Here is your chance to influence this information to your advantage.




FDIC OMWI Education Module: Submitting a Responsive Proposal                                      Page 3 of 14
                                                                               Submitting a Responsive Proposal



        Past Performance: If you don’t have any government project past performance, recommend
         that the agency consider relevant commercial experience.
        Certifications: If you have relevant certifications, recommend the certifications become
         requirements to limit the competition. If you don’t have relevant certifications, recommend that
         they not be required because they would limit competition and could increase the price.
        Methodologies: If you have a particular approach you would take, consider describing it so that
         it can be an RFP requirement. Clearly explain why any methodology other than yours would
         result in a higher risk of failure.

If you have questions about what the RFI/RFQ is about, call the Contracting Officer, if only to make
contact and boost your business’ name recognition. Because you are not in a formal RFP silent period,
the Contracting Officer may be willing to talk about options, trade-offs, intentions, and other critically
important concerns prior to the release of a formal RFP.

Make sure that you describe your recommendations in language that can be included in the RFP. Keep in
mind that if you make a recommendation, and it ends up in the RFP, everyone will see it and bid
accordingly. Reserve the most technical aspect of your product or service to maintain your competitive
advantage when you are responding to the RFP. RFIs/RFQs are often announced on FedBizOpps
(fedbizopps.gov). You can do searches for the following words to find them:

        RFI or RFQ
        “Request for Information”
        “Sources Sought”
        “Market Survey”
        “Pre-Solicitation Notice”

Responding to RFIs/RFQs is an excellent way to identify new business opportunities, find a point-of-
contact, and establish a relationship with the Contracting Officer before the RFP hits the street. Often, it
can be many months from the release of an RFI/RFQ to the release of an RFP, and not all RFIs/RFQs
will result in an RFP release. Be patient and ensure that you have highlighted the best your business has
to offer.



Responding to an RFP
Effective proposals typically offer a strategy along with short-term and long-term business objectives,
providing detailed insight upon which key decision makers will be able to share a matching perspective.
In presenting your business’ proposed offering, confine your submission to essential information,
providing sufficient information to define your offer and to establish an adequate basis for the
government to conduct its evaluation.

Because both the technical and cost aspects of your submission will be evaluated at the same time by
different individuals, keep in mind that the quality of the information is significantly more important
than the quantity.


FDIC OMWI Education Module: Submitting a Responsive Proposal                                     Page 4 of 14
                                                                            Submitting a Responsive Proposal



Government procurement is highly regulated, and RFPs have a particular format and structure.
Commercial RFPs do not have to follow the same rules, and can be anything that the company
publishing the RFP wants it to be. Again, because of the complexity of the government solicitation
process, many people forget that in most RFP processes, price is not the most important evaluation
criteria the government agency uses in making the award decision. An RFP will generally tell you what
the customer or agency is interested in procuring, and provides instructions about how to prepare and
submit your proposal.

The following items can help you develop a responsive proposal:

        Bid/No-Bid Evaluation Form and Checklist
        Proposal Development Checklist
        Phase One: Plan It and Know Your Team
        Phase Two: Get All the Data In and Make It Perfect
        Phase Three: Send It and Follow Up
        The Lesser-Known Facts of RFPS
        Tips for Creating a Responsive Proposal



Bid/No-Bid Evaluation Form and Checklist
Deciding whether to bid on a government contract has far-reaching, long-term strategic, and cost
implications for your business. If your business decides to "no-bid" a proposal, it may be dismissing an
opportunity to make money, enhance its reputation, gain major experience, and/or cement a
relationship with a major new government customer. At the same time, spending time preparing a bid
that you can't win or aren't prepared or qualified to perform can also be costly. Submitting a proposal
for government contracting entails a serious and expensive commitment to create a proposal that will
meet the government’s requirements and influence the evaluation team's view of your business.

Prior to making the decision to bid on a government contract, businesses should consider conducting a
bid/no-bid analysis several times during an RFP lifecycle: once before the RFP is issued, again when the
RFP is received, and once more after the proposal outline is available. At any point, the bid/no-bid
analysis should be done quickly yet thoroughly. Many businesses base bid decisions on an informal
assessment, and the analysis is sometimes done too quickly and produces the wrong choice. A Bid/No-
Bid Evaluation Form and Checklist gives you a more formal way of assessing the situation, thus resulting
in a more educated decision. Carefully answering these questions will help you determine when
submitting a bid makes sense for your business.




FDIC OMWI Education Module: Submitting a Responsive Proposal                                  Page 5 of 14
                                                                             Submitting a Responsive Proposal




              (Choose a Measure Score of 1 to 5)
                5 = Best competitive advantage
                                                                        OPPORTUNITY
                3 = Neutral (neither helps or hinders)
                                                                        (Y = Yes | N=No)
                1 = Strong competitive disadvantage
                UNK = Unknown

   BID / NO-BID EVALUATION FORM AND CHECKLIST: FEDERAL AGENCY INFORMATION
   1.   Is this a strategic opportunity? Is it in line with your business?
        A. Is this opportunity consistent with your business plan?
        B. Is it a market or a customer you want?
        C. What are the potential benefits to your business?
        D. Does this RFP provide you with an opportunity to expand into new areas or acquire a new
            type of expertise?
        E. What are the potential risks?
        F. What experience do you gain from this contract in the long-term?
        G. Will this contract lead to others?
        H. Will this contract give you an advantage in future competitions?

   2.    Can you win the competition?
        A. Do you have enough time and skill to write a winning proposal?
        B. Do you know what skills are required for the project?
        C. Do you have the personnel available?
        D. Do you have the resources?
        E. Do you already have a relationship with the customer?
        F. What is your reputation within the customer's organization?
        G. How significant are any requirements you can't meet?
        H. Do you know who will be competing for this work? Who is the incumbent? Is someone
           already wired into the contract? Was the RFP written to a competitor’s strengths?

   3.   Can you make money?
        A. Do you know the budget for this work? Is it realistic?
        B. Is price a major factor in the evaluation? Can you compete on price alone?
        C. Can you afford the investment?
        D. Are there other approaches or opportunities that would be more profitable at less risk?
        E. Can you meet the requirements now without major hiring or changes?

   4.   Is the risk manageable? Can your business do the job?
        A. Is the proposed solution technically feasible?
        B. Can you meet the specifications? Are they within your capabilities? Do you have the
            required skills, people, and resources? Are some requirements new?
        C. Can you meet the schedule? Is there enough time to plan and execute the work?
        D. What if you fail to do the job on time and within budget?
        E. Will this new work place other current projects at risk?
        F. Do you have the management structure and skills to take on this work?


FDIC OMWI Education Module: Submitting a Responsive Proposal                                   Page 6 of 14
                                                                                    Submitting a Responsive Proposal



Proposal Development Checklist
Experienced proposal writers emphasize the importance of planning in any proposal development
effort. Thorough planning usually results in a more clearly focused and better written proposal. A
proposal development checklist will help you create a highly personalized, client-centered proposal that
stands a much higher chance of success than a generic cookie-cutter-style proposal.

The proposal development checklist contains a list of common items required during the development
of your proposal. Use this checklist as a guide and edit it to suit your own workflow. Print a copy each
time you develop a new proposal and check off items as they are completed. Use the checklist to keep
track of details to ensure the proposal development process proceeds as smoothly as possible and that
details are not missed.

PROJECT TASK ASSIGNMENT & PROGRESS SHEET
ID  TASK NAME                   DESCRIPTION                                   PRIORITY STATUS ASSIGNED
TBD Application Form(s)         Complete according to RFP guidelines          TBD      TBD    TBD
TBD Table of Contents           Include sections designated in the            TBD      TBD    TBD
                                guidelines and a listing of all supporting
                                documentation           divided        into
                                Appendices.
TBD    Executive Summary        From one paragraph to two pages in            TBD         TBD       TBD
                                length.
TBD    Budget                   Detailed justification of each item in        TBD         TBD       TBD
                                the cost proposal.
TBD    Narrative, Project       Content and format required as                TBD         TBD       TBD
       Description              stated in the solicitation guidelines.
TBD    Required                 Key Personnel – Qualifications, past          TBD         TBD       TBD
       Documents                performance statements; strategic
                                alliance partner information.
TBD    Correspondence           CD ROM and a corresponding list of            TBD         TBD       TBD
                                information required for shipping per
                                solicitation guidelines.
TBD    Cross Reference          RFP Cross Reference and Compliance            TBD         TBD       TBD
                                Matrix templates for use in your
                                proposal to show adherence to the key
                                RFP requirements of the project.
TBD    Research                 Research the client, industry, and            TBD         TBD       TBD
                                competing bidders.
TBD    Client                   Gather client information.                    TBD         TBD       TBD
TBD    Team                     Gather your business, product, service,       TBD         TBD       TBD
                                and management team information.
TBD    Proposal Pack            Proposal templates to be used in the          TBD         TBD       TBD
                                proposal. The templates include
                                boilerplate text and instructions.




FDIC OMWI Education Module: Submitting a Responsive Proposal                                        Page 7 of 14
                                                                                Submitting a Responsive Proposal



Phase One: Proposal Planning and Knowing Your Team
Creating a proposal for a federal government contract can seem a bit overwhelming. It is common to
hire an experienced proposal writer to plan and develop the proposal on your behalf. But even if you do,
proposal writing is not an aspect of your business to fully outsource to another organization; maintain
your connection from planning through the submission of the proposal. Some steps to follow:


Gather Documentation
The first step in writing your proposal is to gather the documentation for it. Get organized and do your
research in three areas: concept, program, and expenses. Gather all the data you need for your pitch —
any important history, contact information, schedules, web site links, photos, product descriptions, and
so forth. If all of this information is not readily available to you, determine who will help you gather each
type of information. If you have a small or non-existent staff, a knowledgeable board member or your
proposal development consultant will be the logical choice. If you are in a larger business, involving
other stakeholders in the process helps key people consider the project's value to the business. The
background data you collect on the organization, and on the needs to be addressed, will show that your
arguments are well-documented. This data-gathering process makes the actual writing much easier.


Decide What You Want to Say
The second step is to decide what you want to say in your proposal. You need to introduce yourself and
describe your capabilities, products, or plans. Be specific and, if possible, mention awards or
recommendations from others to add credibility. Understand who will read this proposal and get all the
data you can on your prospective client. You should put together the best presentation possible by
showing you understand the situation, complicating factors, and questions key stakeholders are asking
or are seeking a solution for.


Have a Consistent Concept
You must have a good sense of how the project fits with the philosophy and mission of your business.
Have a point of view and highlight your philosophy in the proposal. Clearly articulate how your business’
proposal addresses the needs expressed in the solicitation work statement. Proposal reviewers want to
know that a project reinforces the overall direction of their own organization, and they may need to be
convinced that your business has a consistent concept, and understands the unique needs of the
project.


Have a Program Statement
Know the agency’s program objectives. If no program objectives are stated, create a program statement
based on your understanding of the project. A program statement helps your team understand the
framework of the project and the direction you want your proposal to take. It also serves to further
refine your understanding of the project, and how it fits within the overall mission, with feedback from



FDIC OMWI Education Module: Submitting a Responsive Proposal                                      Page 8 of 14
                                                                                 Submitting a Responsive Proposal



the agency. A program statement should include: the nature of the project and how it will be conducted;
the timetable for the project; the anticipated outcomes and how best to evaluate the results; and
staffing, including deployment of existing agency staff.


Get a Handle on Expenses
You will not be able to develop the expenses associated with the project until the program details and
timing have been worked out. Thus, the main financial data gathering takes place after the narrative of
the master proposal has been written. However, at this stage you do need to sketch out the broad
outlines of the budget to be sure that the costs are in reasonable proportion to the outcomes you
anticipate. If it appears that the costs will be prohibitive, scale back your plans, or adjust them to
remove the least cost-effective expenditures.



Phase Two: Get All the Data In and Make It Perfect
Now that you have the structure in place, take all your gathered content and flesh out the pages of your
proposal. To increase your chances of success, write your proposal in a way that instills trust: keep in
mind that you are writing a proposal to another person who you want to influence in such a manner
that they choose your company to perform the work. Try to anticipate the questions they will have and
provide answers. Don’t assume that the reviewers understand the information, and don’t assume they
already have knowledge of your business.

Be as thorough as possible, and take care to match requirements for formal style based on the type of
organization and the requirements in the solicitation. Change the sequence of the text as necessary to
achieve the correct tone and the right flow of information.

As you review, look at the content as well as the presentation. Use spell check, but don’t assume it
will catch all errors. Have others check your proposal for grammar, spelling errors, and missing or
misplaced information. This is particularly important if you copy content from samples or past
proposals. Every document you put in front of a government decision maker says something about
your business, so make sure the proposal is as clean as possible.

The following components of a proposal can help you check the contents of your proposal and ensure
you’ve been as responsive as possible.

COMPONENTS OF A PROPOSAL
#          SECTION             DESCRIPTION
1          Transmittal         Open with an introduction and statement of your capabilities. Here you will
Page       Letter              provide the reader with a snapshot of what is to follow.
1-2        Executive           Umbrella statement of your capabilities and summary of the entire
Pages      Summary             proposal. Specifically, it summarizes all of the key information and is a sales
                               document designed to convince the reader that your business should be



FDIC OMWI Education Module: Submitting a Responsive Proposal                                       Page 9 of 14
                                                                                Submitting a Responsive Proposal



                               considered for the project. It should be no more than two pages and you
                               should ask for the business. Keep in mind that this may be the only part of
                               your proposal that the customer’s executive management will read.
2          Statement of Why this project is necessary; what are the agency’s objectives? It presents
Pages      Understanding the facts and evidence that support the need for the project and establishes
                         that your business understands the problems and, therefore, can
                         reasonably address them. You want the statement to be succinct, yet
                         persuasive.
3          Project             Nuts and bolts of how the project will be implemented and evaluated. This
Pages      Description         section of your proposal should have objectives, methods, staffing, and
                               administrative requirements.
3-4        Methods             By means of the objectives, explain what will be achieved by the project.
Pages                          The methods section describes the specific activities that will take place to
                               achieve the objectives. Your methods should match the previously stated
                               objectives. The methods section should present the order and timing for the
                               tasks. You may need to defend your chosen methods, especially if they are
                               proprietary or unconventional. This also addresses why the planned work
                               must effectively lead to the anticipated outcomes. You can answer this
                               question in a number of ways, including using examples of other projects.
1          Budget/Pricing      The pricing for your proposal may be as simple as a one-page statement of
Page                           projected expenses. Or, your proposal may require a more complex
                               presentation, perhaps including a page on projected support and notes
                               explaining various items of expense or of revenue. Make sure you
                               document any assumptions you made when developing your pricing.
1          Business            Highlight the history and governing structure of your business, its primary
Page       Information         activities, and services. In describing the methods, you will have mentioned
                               staffing for the project. Details about individual staff members involved in
                               the project can be included either as part of this section or in the appendix,
                               depending on the length and importance of this information. You now need
                               to devote a few sentences to discussing the number of staff, their
                               qualifications, and specific assignments.
2          Conclusion          Every proposal should have a concluding paragraph or two. This section is
Para-                          also the place to make a final appeal for your project. If appropriate, you
graphs                         should outline some of the follow-up activities that might be undertaken to
                               begin to prepare for starting the project.



Phase Three: Send It and Follow Up
Now that you’ve perfected your proposal, create the final distribution copy and convert it to PDF for
delivery. Sending a proposal in PDF ensures the consistency and integrity of the document. Delivering
your proposal is a milestone, but it is not the end of the process. Proposal review procedures vary
widely, and the decision-making process can take anywhere from a few weeks to six months or more.



FDIC OMWI Education Module: Submitting a Responsive Proposal                                     Page 10 of 14
                                                                              Submitting a Responsive Proposal



During the review process, the prospective client may ask for additional information either directly from
you or from outside consultants or professional references.

Invariably, this is a difficult time for the business. You need to be patient but persistent. If you are
unclear about next steps in the process, don't hesitate to ask. Also, find out whether the agency has
specific forms, procedures, and deadlines for reporting on the progress of the project.

        If you win the proposal: You’ll need to complete other documents, such as contracts, work
         orders, non-disclosure agreements, change orders, and development milestone sign-offs. The
         Contracting Officer can guide you in the next steps.
        If you lose the proposal: Ask the Contracting Officer for a debriefing session on your proposal. A
         debriefing session allows you to get feedback on your proposal for future reference. Questions
         you can ask are: Who was the successful vendor? Was the successful vendor the incumbent?
         What criteria did your business fail to overcome? Was there a ranking, and if so, where did your
         business rank? How can you improve in order to better serve the future needs of the agency?
         Keep in mind that you may not agree with what the Contracting Officer is saying, however, you
         must remain professional or you may jeopardize future business opportunities.

Whether you win or lose, take important points away from the process to better position your business
in the future. Now might be a good time to begin cultivating other agency business, and start gathering
information needed to compete for future opportunities.



The Lesser-Known Facts of RFPs

Outsourcing Proposal Development
Because of the considerable amount of work required to submit a responsive proposal, a business or
agency may hire a vendor to prepare and write an RFP for them. When this is the case, that vendor is
generally, but not always, precluded from responding to the RFP for obvious reasons.

If you choose to hire a vendor to prepare your proposal, ensure that they have signed appropriate
documentation, including Non-Disclosure and Non-Compete Agreements before disclosing the proposed
target agency, the RFP document, or providing your business’ information. These documents protect
you and formalize all agreements before the vendor begins working with your sensitive business
information and data.


Organizations "Phishing" for Information
Sometimes organizations issue RFPs when they have no intention of actually awarding a contract. These
organizations are "phishing" for information or using the RFP as a proxy to reissue the contract with the
incumbent contractor. Although this is rarely the case with federal government RFPs, take care to ask
appropriate questions before responding to private sector and state level solicitations.




FDIC OMWI Education Module: Submitting a Responsive Proposal                                   Page 11 of 14
                                                                             Submitting a Responsive Proposal



To assess this type of situation, notify the appropriate Contracting Officer regarding your interest in
responding to the solicitation, and ask carefully crafted, pointed questions such as:
     “is there an incumbent involved in this contract opportunity?”
     “can you advise as to your organization’s schedule for making the final decision?”
Take the opportunity to ask to be placed on the solicitation list and request a copy of the solicitation
materials even if you already have the information. This provides the opportunity to engage with the
Contracting Officer.


The Best and Final Offer (BAFO)
Some government agencies may ask for your Best and Final Offer (BAFO) after you have submitted your
proposal. If this happens, you have been successful in the technical evaluation, and you are in the final
grouping of prospective contractors. In government contracting, a BAFO request is a contractor's final
offer following the conclusion of the technical evaluation. The BAFO is used when:

        contractors bids are within a close range of one another;
        no single response addresses all the specifications;
        the cost submitted by all proposers is too high or too low;
        the scores of two or more proposers are very close after the evaluation process; or
        all proposers submitted responses that are unclear or deficient in one or more areas.

Since BAFOs may be conducted with only those most likely to be awarded a contract, take it seriously.
Although you may keep your response exactly the same, a BAFO is generally a summary of the original
proposal and a revision, as necessary, of the price quoted in your original offer. The evaluation
committee will note whether the proposer(s) resubmission addresses important aspects of the proposal,
such as the implementation schedule, level of support, type or amount of resources proposed, contract
terms, and conditions and/or cost.



Tips for Creating a Responsive Proposal
Developing a winning proposal can be a long and, at times, difficult process. Consider the following tips
that will help you develop a responsive and competitive proposal.

        Understand the problem/request. Clearly show that you understand what goods or services the
         contracting agency is requesting. Summarize the problem/request in a couple of sentences and
         then start elaborating how you will solve the problem/request.
        State your proposed solution. Clearly communicate how your product or service will address
         the contracting agency’s problem/request and why your company’s solution is the best. Be
         careful in assuming your solution is self-explanatory. The evaluation team may make the wrong
         assumptions if your solution is not clear.




FDIC OMWI Education Module: Submitting a Responsive Proposal                                     Page 12 of 14
                                                                                 Submitting a Responsive Proposal



        Ask for the business. When you interview for a job, typically the last statement you make is to
         ask for the job. Asking for the business should be a natural conclusion to your cover letter or
         executive summary.
        Spell check, grammar check, error check. While you obviously should spell check, you should
         also have someone proofread your proposal. The best person would be someone that was not
         involved or had limited involvement in the proposal development process. Someone that is very
         familiar with the proposal will not see errors that someone performing a “fresh eyes” review.
        Readability. If the RFP states to use a specific font or font size, do so. If not, make sure you use a
         font and font size that will be easy for the evaluation team to read. Too small or too large can be
         very distracting to the reader.
        Production. Make sure you print and bind your proposal in a professional way. Also use good
         quality paper. The RFP will state how many copies should be printed and if CDs are required.
         The RFP will state what should be included on the cover (e.g., RFP title, solicitation number, due
         date, contracting agency’s name, etc.).
        Appearance. Consider using graphics, images, charts and tables wherever applicable. Not only
         can these additions break the monotony of continuous blocks of text, but they are also a great
         way to represent numerical data in an interesting format.
        Point of view. You should only use language that is neutral and not provocative in any manner.
         Be politically correct and never assume that the recipients of your proposal share your thoughts
         and ideals.
        Minimize jargon. While you may think certain terminology is standard for your industry, the
         evaluation team may include individuals who may not be industry experts. If your industry has
         complicated terminology, you may consider including a page or two for definition of terms.



Key Takeaways from This Module
   Preparing proposals may be described as a problem-solving process carried out under conditions of
    competition and high reward, and with cost penalties for wasted or ineffective effort.
   In addition to a Request for Proposal (RFP), some organizations publish a Request for Quotation
    (RFQ) when all they want is the price, while others publish a Request for Information (RFI) when
    they need information prior to issuing a solicitation.
   In most RFP processes, price is not the most important evaluation criteria used in making the award.
   Deciding whether to bid on a government contract has far-reaching, long-term, and cost
    implications for your business. Carefully consider your Bid/No-Bid strategy.
   Tools, such as a Bid/No-Bid Checklist and a Proposal Development Checklist, can help you make
    decisions more quickly and efficiently.
   A proposal development checklist allows you to create a highly personalized, client-centered
    proposal that stands a much higher chance of success than a generic cookie-cutter-style proposal.




FDIC OMWI Education Module: Submitting a Responsive Proposal                                       Page 13 of 14
                                                                            Submitting a Responsive Proposal



   Make sure you understand the request and you clearly state you proposed solution and prepare an
    error-free response.
   If you receive a negative response on a proposal, analyze what went wrong and ask for an
    opportunity to resubmit an improved proposal. In any case, request a debrief and use this
    experience as a lesson learned.



Sources and Citations
        Confluentforms.com, Often Maligned, RFPs Are a Valuable Tool and Opportunity
        Confluentforms.com, Six Steps for Writing a Request for Proposal
        Internetraining.com, How to Write an RFP
        Adrian Wooclock, ProSidian Consulting, LLC, Submitting a Responsive Proposal
        Captureplanning.com, Request for Proposal (RFP) Help Center
        Jane C. Geever, The Foundation Center's Guide to Proposal Writing 5th edition
        Ramon Padilla, Jr., Procurement 101 in Government IT: Request for Proposal (RFP)
        Karen Ann Kidd, Protecting your ideas in your RFP response
        Michael Asner, Bid or No-Bid? A Lot Rides on Your Decision. Here's How to Make the Right One
        Edwin Smith, Win the RFP Game with a Smart Strategy
        Shirleen Payne, ProSidian Consulting, LLC, Submitting a Responsive Proposal
        EzineArticle, Ten Tips for Creating a Winning Proposal




FDIC OMWI Education Module: Submitting a Responsive Proposal                                Page 14 of 14
