INDIANA DEPARTMENT OF CHILD SERVICES

            Request for Proposal


              Solicitation For:
            Older Youth Services


     Response Due Date: February 3, 2020




                            Indiana Department of Child Services
                                                Services Division
                             302 W. Washington St., Room E306
                                     Indianapolis, Indiana 46204
                                     RFP OUTLINE
The outline of this RFP document is described below:

              Section                                         Description
 Section 1 – General Information     This section provides an overview of the RFP, definitions,
 and Requested Chafee Older Youth    general timelines for the process, and a summary of the
 Services, Collaborative Care        Chafee Older Youth Services, Collaborative Care Placement
 Placement and Supervision and       and Supervision and Chafee Voluntary Services being
 Chafee Voluntary Services           solicited by the Indiana Department of Child Services via this
                                     RFP
 Section 2 – Proposal Preparation    This section provides instructions on the format and content
 Instruction                         of the RFP including a Letter of Transmittal, Provider
                                     Narrative, Service Narrative, and a Budget
 Section 3 – Proposal Evaluation     This sections discusses the evaluation criteria to be used to
 Criteria                            evaluate respondents’ proposals
 Section 4 – RFP Attachments         This section provides a listing with each attachment identied
                                     within the RFP including the attachment letter or number,
                                     name of attachment, and description of the attachment.




                                                                   Request for Proposal 2 of 41
                           SECTION ONE
                GENERAL INFORMATION AND REQUESTED
                      OLDER YOUTH SERVICES
1.1     INTRODUCTION

The Indiana Department of Child Services (DCS), in accordance with its State IV-B Plan requires
multiple child welfare services in all 18 regions and 92 counties. The regions and included counties
are listed below. It is the intent of DCS to solicit responses to this Request for Proposals (RFP) in
accordance with the statement of work, proposal preparation section, and specifications contained in
this document. This RFP is being posted to the DCS Current Request for Proposals website:
https://www.in.gov/dcs/3151.htm for downloading. Neither this RFP nor any response (proposal)
submitted hereto are to be construed as a legal offer.

Region 1: Lake
Region 2: Benton, Jasper, LaPorte, Newton, Porter, Pulaski, Starke.
Region 3: Elkhart, Kosciusko, Marshall, St. Joseph.
Region 4: Allen, DeKalb, LaGrange, Noble, Steuben, Whitley.
Region 5: Carroll, Clinton, Fountain, Tippecanoe, Warren, White,
Region 6: Cass, Fulton, Howard, Huntington, Miami, Wabash.
Region 7: Adams, Blackford, Delaware, Grant, Jay, Randolph, Wells.
Region 8: Clay, Parke, Sullivan, Vermillion, Vigo.
Region 9: Montgomery, Putnam, Hendricks, Boone, Morgan.
Region 10: Marion
Region 11: Hamilton, Tipton, Madison, Hancock.
Region 12: Fayette, Franklin, Henry, Rush, Union, Wayne.
Region 13: Brown, Greene, Lawrence, Monroe, Owen.
Region 14: Bartholomew, Jackson, Jennings, Johnson, Shelby.
Region 15: Dearborn, Decatur, Jefferson, Ripley, Ohio, Switzerland.
Region 16: Gibson, Knox, Pike, Posey, Vanderburgh, Warrick.
Region 17: Crawford, Daviess, Dubois, Martin, Orange, Perry, Spencer.
Region 18: Clark, Floyd, Harrison, Scott, Washington.

The Indiana Department of Child Services offers Successful Adulthood Services: services for youth
that are designed to assist youth who will age out of foster care with the skills and abilities necessary
or desirable to be self-reliant in accordance with State law. This service is known as Older Youth
Services (OYS). The OYS program is comprised of Chafee Independent Living Services, Extended
Foster Care / Collaborative Care Services, and Chafee Voluntary Independent Living Services. The
focal points of older youth services are to increase youth voice, offer the opportunity to practice
interdependence as well as gaining the skills to build the youth’s own social capitol. The goals are to
prepare youth to emerge into adulthood and move identified youth into a permanent housing setting
that the youth can continue to live in once DCS closes the case. This program also includes allowing
youth to voluntarily return to foster care on or after the youths 18th birthday. The focus of the RFP
is to seek service providers to assist in this effort by providing Older Youth Services. The RFP is
interested in creative programming designed for older youth that focuses on experimental learning in
education, housing, employment, and skill building.

1.2     DEFINITIONS AND ABBREVIATIONS


                                                                       Request for Proposal 3 of 41
Following are explanations of terms and abbreviations appearing throughout this RFP. Other special
terms may be used in the RFP, but they are more localized and defined where they appear, rather
than in the following list.

  Award                   Indiana Department of Child Services’ summary to the agency being
  Recommendation          supported, typically in letter format, of the solicitation and suggestion on
                          respondent selection for the purposes of beginning contract negotiations.

  IAC                     Indiana Administrative Code

  IC                      Indiana Code

  Contract Award          The acceptance of Indiana Department of Child Services Award
                          Recommendation by the agency being supported in conjunction with the
                          public posting of the Award Recommendation.

  VSC                     Valuable Scope Contribution – A business function that supports the
                          scope of this solicitation

  Full Time               The State defines FTE as a measurement of an employee's productivity
  Equivalent (FTE)        when executing the scope of work in this RFP for a specific project or
                          contract. An FTE of 1 would mean that there is one worker fully
                          engaged on a project. If there are two employees each spending 1/2 of
                          their working time on a project that would also equal 1 FTE

  Implementation          The successful implementation of Older Youth Services at the Indiana
                          Government Center as specified in the contract resulting from this RFP

  Installation            The delivery and physical setup of products or services requested in this
                          RFP

  Other                   An agency, a board, a branch, a bureau, a commission, a council, a
  Governmental            department, an institution, an office, or another establishment of any of
  Body                    the following:
                          1) The judicial branch
                          2) The legislative branch
                          3) A political subdivision (includes towns, cities, local governments, etc.)
                          4) A State educational institution

  Products                Tangible goods or manufactured items as specified in this RFP

  Proposal                An offer as defined in IC 5-22-2-17

  Respondent              An offeror as defined in IC 5-22-2-18. The State will not consider a
                          proposal responsive if two or more offerors submit a joint or combined
                          proposal. One entity or individual must be clearly identified as the

                                                                     Request for Proposal 4 of 41
                            respondent who will be ultimately responsible for performance of the
                            contract


  Services                  Work to be performed as specified in this RFP

  State                     The State of Indiana

  State Agency              As defined in IC 4-13-1, “State Agency” means an authority, board,
                            branch, commission, committee, department, division, or other
                            instrumentality of the executive, including the administrative, department
                            of State government

  Total Bid Amount          The amount that the respondent proposes on Attachment C that
                            represents their total, all-inclusive price.

  Vendor                    Any entity or person who does business with the State and is registered as
                            same.

1.3       PURPOSE OF THE RFP

The purpose of this RFP is to select a vendor’s that can satisfy the Department’s need for The
Chafee program Independent Living Services, Extended Foster Care / Collaborative Care
Placement Supervision & Services and The Chafee program Voluntary Independent Services to all
18 regions and their corresponding 92 local offices in the State. It is the intent of DCS to contract
with vendor’s; no more than 10 statewide, to provide quality life skills / older youth services that
improve outcomes for youth and young adults while leveraging additional funding and brokering
community resources.

Services for youth and young adults must be individualized with a focus on authentic youth
engagement with the purpose facilitating a successful learning plan from foster care to adulthood.
The state will be divided into service areas as follows:

         Service Area 1: DCS regions 1 & 2
         Service Area 2: DCS regions 3 & 4
         Service Area 3: DCS regions 5 & 6
         Service Area 4: DCS regions 8 & 9
         Service Area 5: DCS regions 10 & 11
         Service Area 6: DCS regions 7 & 12
         Service Area 7: DCS regions 13 & 14
         Service Area 8: DCS regions 16 & 17
         Service Area 9: DCS regions 15 & 18

Vendor’s may choose to apply to serve more than one area, but must be prepared to provide the full
array of Older Youth Services to all youth in a single coverage area.

                                                                      Request for Proposal 5 of 41
1.4      SUMMARY SCOPE OF WORK
DCS is required under The CHAFEE program (The John H. Chafee Foster Care Program for
Successful Transition to Adulthood) to ensure current and former foster youth in out of home care
or who have aged out of foster care achieve self-sufficiency. Vendors are expected to provide
services designed to support successful transition into adulthood. Vendor’s will provide activities of
instruction, experiential learning, coaching, mentoring in the areas of education, employment,
financial and asset management, physical and mental health, housing, activities of daily living and
youth engagement. These services will be encompassed within the DCS older youth services array:
Chafee Older Youth Services, Extended Foster Care / Collaborative Care, and Chafee Voluntary
Services. Delivery of services should be in a manner consistent with the Older Youth Services
Service Standards (Attachment A) and the Older Youth Services Protocol (Attachment B). The
service standards include but are not limited to the length, quality and type of service, qualification
of staff, documentation requirements, as well as NYTD (National Youth in Transition Database)
OYS program reporting and evaluation. The Older Youth Services Protocol includes but not limited
to child welfare best practice in understanding, engaging, planning and supporting Older in foster
care and service delivery.

       a. Indiana’s Extended Foster Care / Collaborative Care Program

Under extended foster care / Collaborative Care the vendor will be responsible for placement
supervision and take financial responsibility of apartment / housing placement types in addition to
providing older youth services (See Attachment A and Attachment B). This includes placement
costs and supervision for youth for whom DCS has placement and care. Supervision for older youth
includes preparing the youth to live interdependently by serving as a broker of services to connect
youth to community service providers as defined in the older youth services service standards and
older youth services protocol.

       b. Chart 1. DCS / Provider Responsibilities

           CHINS/Probation                                     Agency Responsibilities
              Placement                       DCS FCM            Older   Budget Other Contractor
                                                                Youth
                                                                Service
                                                               Provider
                 Foster Home                DCS case           Older Youth     Budget 1 Other services as
                     County                management            Services              referred
                                                                (starting at
                     Relative              Placement          age 16years)
                     Unlicensed            supervision
                        Court
                        Approved            Service referral
  Traditional                               and oversight
                        Placement
  Foster Care
                 Foster Home                DCS case           Older Youth     Budget 1 Other services as
                     Licensed Child        management            Services              referred
                        Placing Agency                          (starting at
                                            Service referral   six months                LCPA provides:
                        (LCPA)              and oversight          before                    Older Youth
                                                                placement                      Services
                                                                transition)


                                                                        Request for Proposal 6 of 41
                                                                                               (starting at age
                                                                                               16)
                                                                                            Placement
                                                                                               supervision
                                                                                            Case
                                                                                               management
                                                                                               to LCPA foster
                                                                                               home
               Group Home                 DCS case           Older Youth     Budget 1 Other services as
                                          management            Services              referred
                                                              (starting at
                                          Service referral   six months               Group Home provides:
                                          and oversight          before                     Older Youth
                                                              placement                        Services
                                                              transition)                      (starting at age
                                                                                               16)
                                                                                            Placement
                                                                                               supervision
                                                                                            Internal case
                                                                                               management
               Residential/Child          DCS case           Older Youth     Budget 1 Other services as
               Caring Institution         management            Services              referred
               (CCI)                                          (starting at
                                          Service referral   six months                CCI provides:
                                          and oversight          before                     Older Youth
                                                              placement                        Services
                                                              transition)                      (starting at age
                                                                                               16)
                                                                                            Placement
                                                                                               supervision
                                                                                            Internal case
                                                                                               management
                                                             Agency Responsibilities
    Collaborative Care CC Program           DCS 3CM            Older   Budget Other Contractor
Placement (youth age 18 or older with a                       Youth
            CC agreement)                                     Service
                                                             Provider
               Foster Home                DCS case           Older Youth     Budget 1 Other services as
                   County                management           Services               referred
                   Relative              Placement
                   Unlicensed            supervision
                      Court
                      Approved            Service referral
                      Placement           and oversight
Traditional
Foster Care                               DCS case           Older Youth     Budget 1 Other services as
               Foster Home
                   Licensed Child        management           Services               referred
                      Placing Agency
                                          Service referral                             LCPA provides:
                      (LCPA)              and oversight                                    Placement
                                                                                             supervision
                                                                                           Case
                                                                                             management


                                                                      Request for Proposal 7 of 41
                                                                                         to LCPA foster
                                                                                         home
              Group Home           DCS case           Older Youth      Budget 1 Other services as
                                   management           Services                referred

                                   Service referral                             Group Home provides:
                                   and oversight                                      Placement
                                                                                         supervision
                                                                                      Internal case
                                                                                         management
              Residential/Child    DCS case           Older Youth      Budget 1 Other services as
              Caring Institution   management           Services                referred
              (CCI)
                                   Service referral                             CCI provides:
                                   and oversight                                      Older Youth
                                                                                         Services
                                                                                         (starting at age
                                                                                         16)
                                                                                      Placement
                                                                                         supervision
                                                                                      Internal case
                                                                                         management
              Host Home            DCS case           Older Youth      Budget 1 Other services as
                                   management           Services                referred
                                                        (only as
                                   Placement           referred)                Host Home Adult
                                   supervision                                  provides:
                                                                                      Older Youth
                                   Service referral                                       Services
                                   and oversight                                          (Teachable
                                                                                          Moments)
                                                                                      Casey Life
                                                                                          Skills
                                                                                          Assessment
                                                                                          (CLSA)
              College Dorm         DCS case           Older Youth      Budget 1 Other services as
Older Youth                        management           Services                referred
 Placement                                              (only as
    and                            Placement           referred)
 Supervised                        supervision
Independent                        Service referral
   Living                          and oversight
              Shared               DCS case           Older Youth      Budget 2 Other services as
              Apartment/Housing    management           Services                referred

                                   Service referral     Placement
                                   and oversight       supervision
                                                        and fiscal
                                                      responsibility
              Own                  DCS case           Older Youth Budget 2 Other services as
              Apartment/Housing    management            Services          referred
                                   Service referral
                                   and oversight        Placement
                                                       supervision
                                                        and fiscal
                                                      responsibility

                                                               Request for Proposal 8 of 41
                                                             Agency Responsibilities
                                              DCS IL           Older   Budget Other Contractor
                                            Specialist or     Youth
                                               3CM            Service
                                                             Provider
                                           VSA referral      Older Youth   Budget 4 N/A
                                                               Services
                                           Service
                                           monitoring         Connect
                                                              youth to
                                           Approval of       community
           Voluntary Services              Chafee funding    services as
                                           for Room and        needed
                                           Board and
                                           Emancipation
                                           Goods and
                                           Services

Youth in Traditional Foster Care Placements; Foster Homes supervised by DCS or Licensed Child
Placing Agencies (LCPAs), Group Homes and Child Caring Institutions who are eligible may
transfer to a 3CM at age 16 or older and will remain in these placements until the youth turns 18
and/or is ready to step down to a less restrictive placement. Youth do not become eligible to enter
into a Collaborative Care Agreement until the age of 18.
  *The term “case management” refers to the acts of service coordination, service monitoring and
  overseeing other ongoing activities related to a case which may include but is not limited to:
  communication with the older youth and service provider, crisis intervention and compiling and
  submitting required reports (i.e. DCS case management includes writing regular reports to the
  court; LCPA case management includes writing monthly reports to the referring agency).*

  **The term “placement supervision” refers to the acts of monitoring the older youth’s safety and
  stability in their placement.**

  ***The term “Older Youth Services” refers to the act of providing specific activities outlined as
  outlined in the older youth services service standards. These activities should be youth specific
  and be designed in a manner that allows the older youth opportunities to further develop his/her
  interdependence.***

  Budget 1: Chafee IL services ONLY
  Older Youth Services as defined and provided to those youth in placements identified as Budget 1
  in Chart 1.

  Budget 2: Collaborative Care-services and placement supervision
  Includes placement costs and supervision for youth for whom DCS has placement and care.
  Supervision for older youth includes preparing the youth to live interdependently by serving as a
  broker of services to connect youth to community service providers as defined in the service
  standards. Identified as Budget 2 in Chart 1

  Budget 4: Chafee IL Services-Voluntary ONLY

                                                                     Request for Proposal 9 of 41
  Older Youth Services (including case management and limited financial assistance to support
  rent, utilities, and items to support independent living, i.e., Room & Board) as defined in the
  service standards and provided to those youth in placements identified as Budget 4 in Chart 1.

1.5    PRE-PROPOSAL CONFERENCE

A pre-proposal conference will be held at the date, time and location specified in Section 1.24
Summary of Milestones. At this conference, potential respondents may ask questions about the
RFP and the RFP process. Respondents are reminded that no answers issued verbally at the
conference are binding on the State and any information provided at the conference, unless it is later
issued in writing, also is not binding on the State.

1.6    QUESTION/INQUIRY PROCESS

All questions/inquiries regarding this RFP must be submitted in writing by the deadline of 3:00 p.m.
Eastern Time on December 13, 2019. Questions/Inquiries may be submitted in Attachment M,
Q&A Template, via email to DCS Older Youth Questions OlderYouthQuestions@dcs.IN.gov and
must be received by the time and date indicated above. The subject line of the email submissions
must clearly state the following: “RFP Older Youth Services Questions/Inquiries – [INSERT
COMPANY NAME]”.

Following the question/inquiry due date, the Older Youth Initiatives personnel will compile a list of
the questions/inquiries submitted by all Respondents. The responses will be posted to the DCS
Current Request for Proposals website: https://www.in.gov/dcs/3151.htm according to the RFP
timetable established in Section 1.20. The question/inquiry and answer link will become active after
responses to all questions have been compiled. Only answers posted on the DCS Current Request
for Proposals website: https://www.in.gov/dcs/3151.htm will be considered official and valid by
the State. No Respondent shall rely upon, take any action, or make any decision based upon any
verbal communication with any State employee.

Inquiries are not to be directed to any staff member of the Indiana Department of Child Services or
any other participating agency. Such action may disqualify Respondent from further consideration
for a contract resulting from this RFP.

If it becomes necessary to revise any part of this RFP, or if additional information is necessary for a
clearer interpretation of provisions of this RFP prior to the due date for proposals, an addendum
will be posted on the https://www.in.gov/dcs/3151.htm. If such addenda issuance is necessary, the
Services Division may extend the due date and time of proposals to accommodate such additional
information requirements, if required.

1.7    DUE DATE FOR PROPOSALS

All proposals must be received at the address below by the Older Youth Initiatives Manager –
Services Division no later than the date and time outlined in Section 1.24 Summary of Milestones.
Each Respondent must submit one original CD-ROM / USB Thumb Drive (marked
"Original") and One (1) complete copies on CD-ROM / USB Thumb Drive of the proposal,
including the Transmittal Letter and other related documentation as required in this RFP. The

                                                                     Request for Proposal 10 of 41
original CD-ROM / USB Thumb Drive will be considered the official response in evaluating
responses for scoring and protest resolution. Each copy of the proposal must follow the format
indicated in Section Two of this document. Unnecessarily elaborate brochures or other
presentations, beyond those necessary to present a complete and effective proposal, are not desired.
All proposals must be addressed to:

Anisa L. Evans, MSW
Anisa.Evan@dcs.in.gov
Older Youth Initiatives Manager
Indiana Department of Child Services
Attention: Older Youth Initiatives - Services Division
302 West Washington Street, Room E306-MS 47
Indianapolis, IN 46204

If you hand-deliver solicitation responses:
To facilitate weapons restrictions at Indiana Government Center North and Indiana Government
Center South, as of July 21, 2008, the public must enter IGC buildings through a designated public
entrance. The public entrance to Indiana Government Center South is located at 10 N. Senate
Avenue (East side of building). This entrance will be equipped with metal detectors and screening
devices monitored by Indiana State Police Capitol Police.
Passing through the public entrance may take some time. Please be sure to take this information into
consideration if your company plans to submit a solicitation response in person.

If you ship or mail solicitation responses: United States Postal Express and Certified Mail are
both delivered to the Government Center Central Mailroom, and not directly to the Services
Division. It is the responsibility of the Respondent to make sure that solicitation responses are
received by the Services Division at the Indiana Department of Child Service’s reception desk on or
before the designated time and date. Late submissions will not be accepted. The Indiana
Department of Child Services, Services Division clock is the official time for all solicitation
submissions.

Regardless of delivery method, all proposal packages must be sealed and clearly marked with the
RFP number, due date, and time due. DCS will not accept any unsealed bids. Any proposal received
by the Indiana Department of Child Services, Services Division after the due date and time will not
be considered. Any late proposals will be returned, unopened, to the Respondent upon request. All
rejected proposals not claimed within 30 days of the proposal due date will be destroyed.

No more than one proposal per Respondent may be submitted.

The State accepts no obligations for costs incurred by Respondents in anticipation of being awarded
a contract.

1.8    MODIFICATION OR WITHDRAWAL OF OFFERS

Modifications to responses to this RFP may only be made in the manner and format consistent with
the submittal of the original response, acceptable to DCS and clearly identified as a modification.



                                                                   Request for Proposal 11 of 41
The Respondent’s authorized representative may withdraw the proposal, in person, prior to the due
date. Proper documentation and identification will be required before the Services Division will
release the withdrawn proposal. The authorized representative will be required to sign a receipt for
the withdrawn proposal.

Modification to, or withdrawal of, a proposal received by the Services Division after the exact hour
and date specified for receipt of proposals will not be considered.

1.9    PRICING

Pricing on this RFP must be firm and remain open for a period of not less than 180 days from the
proposal due date. Any attempt to manipulate the format of the document, attach caveats to
pricing, or submit pricing that deviates from the current format will put your proposal at risk.

Please refer to the Budget sub-section under Section 2 for a detailed discussion of the proposal
pricing format and requirements.

1.10   PROPOSAL CLARIFICATIONS AND DISCUSSIONS, AND CONTRACT
       DISCUSSIONS

The State reserves the right to request clarifications on proposals submitted to the State. The State
also reserves the right to conduct proposal discussions, either oral or written, with Respondents.
These discussions could include request for additional information, request for cost or technical
proposal revision, etc. Additionally, in conducting discussions, the State may use information
derived from proposals submitted by competing respondents only if the identity of the respondent
providing the information is not disclosed to others. The State will provide equivalent information
to all respondents which have been chosen for discussions. Discussions, along with negotiations
with responsible respondents may be conducted for any appropriate purpose.

The Services Division will schedule all discussions. Any information gathered through oral
discussions must be confirmed in writing.

A sample contract is provided in Attachment H. Any requested changes to the sample contract
must be submitted with your response (See Section 2.3.5 for details). The State reserves the right to
reject any of these requested changes. It is the State’s expectation that any material elements of the
contract will be substantially finalized prior to contract award.

1.11   BEST AND FINAL OFFER

The State may request best and final offers from those Respondents determined by the State to be
reasonably viable for contract award. However, the State reserves the right to award a contract on
the basis of initial proposals received. Therefore, each proposal should contain the Respondent’s
best terms from a price and technical standpoint.

Following evaluation of the best and final offers, the State may select for final contract
negotiations/execution the offers that are most advantageous to the State, considering cost and the
evaluation criteria in this RFP.


                                                                    Request for Proposal 12 of 41
1.12    REFERENCE SITE VISITS

The State may request a site visit to a Respondent’s working support center to aid in the evaluation
of the Respondent’s proposal. Site visits, if required will be discussed in the technical proposal.

1.13    TYPE AND TERM OF CONTRACT

The State intends to sign a contract with one or more Respondent(s) to fulfill the requirements in
this RFP.

The term of the contract shall be for a period of 24 months, beginning July 1, 2020 and ending June
30, 2022. There may be two-year renewals for a total of 4 years at the State’s option.

1.14    CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION

Respondents are advised that materials contained in proposals are subject to the Access to Public
Records Act (APRA), IC 5-14-3 et seq., and may be viewed and copied by any member of the public,
including news agencies and competitors. The responses are deemed to be “public records” unless a
specific provision of IC 5-14-3 protects it from disclosure. Respondents claiming a statutory
exception to the APRA must indicate so in the Transmittal Letter which specific provision
applies to which specific part of the response. Confidential Information must also be clearly marked
in a separate folder on any included CD-ROM / USB Thumb Drive. Please note citing
“Confidential” on an entire section is not sufficient. The Public Access Counselor (PAC) provides
guidance on APRA. Respondents are encouraged to read guidance from the PAC on this topic as
this is the guidance IDOA follows:

       18-INF-06; Redaction of Public Procurement Documents Informal Inquiry

If the Respondent does not identify the statutory exception, the Indiana Department of Child
Services, Services Division will not consider the submission confidential. The State also reserves the
right to seek the opinion of the PAC for guidance if the State has doubts the cited exception is
applicable.

1.16    TAXES

Proposals should not include any tax from which the State is exempt.

1.17    PROCUREMENT DIVISION REGISTRATION

In order to receive an award, you must be registered as a bidder with the Department of
Administration, Procurement Division. Therefore, to ensure there is no delay in the award all
Respondents are strongly encouraged to register prior to submission of their response. Respondents
should go to www.in.gov/idoa/2464.htm .

1.18    SECRETARY OF STATE REGISTRATION

If awarded the contract, the Respondent will be required to register, and be in good standing, with
the Secretary of State. The registration requirement is applicable to all limited liability partnerships,
                                                                       Request for Proposal 13 of 41
limited partnerships, corporations, S-corporations, nonprofit corporations and limited liability
companies. Information concerning registration with the Secretary of State may be obtained by
contacting:

Secretary of State of Indiana
Corporation Division
402 West Washington Street, E018
Indianapolis, IN 46204
(317) 232-6576
www.in.gov/sos

1.19    COMPLIANCE CERTIFICATION

Responses to this RFP serve as a representation that it has no current or outstanding criminal, civil,
or enforcement actions initiated by the State, and it agrees that it will immediately notify the State of
any such actions. The Respondent also certifies that neither it nor its principals are presently in
arrears in payment of its taxes, permit fees or other statutory, regulatory or judicially required
payments to the State. The Respondent agrees that the State may confirm, at any time, that no such
liabilities exist, and, if such liabilities are discovered, that State may bar the Respondent from
contracting with the State, cancel existing contracts, withhold payments to setoff such obligations,
and withhold further payments or purchases until the entity is current in its payments on its liability
to the State and has submitted proof of such payment to the State.

1.20    EQUAL OPPORTUNITY COMMITMENT

Pursuant to IC 4-13-16.5 and in accordance with 25 IAC 5, Executive Order 13-04 and IC 5-22-14-
3.5, it has been determined that there is a reasonable expectation of minority, woman, and Indiana
veteran business enterprises subcontracting opportunities on a contract awarded under this RFP.
Therefore a contract goal of 8% for Minority Business Enterprises, 8% for Woman Business
Enterprises, and 3% for Indiana Veteran Owned Small Businesses have been established and all
respondents will be expected to comply with the regulation set forth in 25 IAC 5, Executive Order
13-04 and IC 5-22-14-3.5.

Failure to address these requirements may impact the evaluation of your proposal.

1.21    MINORITY & WOMEN'S BUSINESS ENTERPRISES RFP SUBCONTRACTOR
        COMMITMENT (MWBE)

In accordance with 25 IAC 5-5, the Respondent is expected to submit with its proposal a Minority
& Women’s Business Enterprises RFP Subcontractor Commitment Form. The Form must show
that there are, participating in the proposed contract, Minority Business Enterprises (MBE) and
Women Business Enterprises (WBE) listed in the Minority and Women’s Business Enterprises
Division (MWBED) directory of certified firms located at http://www.in.gov/idoa/2352.htm.

If participation is met through use of respondents who supply products and/or services directly to
the Respondent, the Respondent must provide a description of products and/or services provided
that are directly related to this proposal and the cost of direct supplies for this proposal.
Respondents must complete the Subcontractor Commitment Form in its entirety. The amount
                                                                      Request for Proposal 14 of 41
entered in “TOTAL BID AMOUNT” should match the amount entered in the Attachment D,
Cost Proposal Template.

Failure to meet these goals will affect the evaluation of your Proposal. The Department reserves the
right to verify all information included on the MWBE Subcontractor Commitment Form.

Prime Contractors must ensure that the proposed subcontractors meet the following criteria:

         Must be listed on the IDOA Directory of Certified Firms, on or before the proposal due
          date
         Prime Contractor must include with their proposal the subcontractor’s M/WBE
          Certification Letter provided by IDOA, to show current status of certification.
         Each firm may only serve as one classification – MBE, WBE, or IVOSB (see section 1.22)
         A Prime Contractor who is an MBE or WBE must meet subcontractor goals by using
          other listed certified firms. Certified Prime Contractors cannot count their own workforce
          or companies to meet this requirement.
         Must serve a Valuable Scope Contribution (VSC). The firm must serve a value-
          added purpose on the engagement, as confirmed by the State.
         Must provide goods or service only in the industry area for which it is certified as listed in
          the directory at http://www.in.gov/idoa/2352.htm
         Must be used to provide the goods or services specific to the contract
         National Diversity Plans are generally not acceptable

    MINORITY & WOMEN’S BUSINESS ENTERPRISES RFP SUBCONTRACTOR
                  LETTER OF COMMITMENT (MWBE)

A signed letter(s), on company letterhead, from the MBE and/or WBE must accompany the
MWBE Subcontractor Commitment Form. Each letter shall state and will serve as
acknowledgement from the MBE and/or WBE of its subcontract amount, a description of products
and/or services to be provided on this project, and approximate date the subcontractor will perform
work on this contract. The MBE and/or WBE subcontractor amount and subcontractor percentage
is only based on the initial term of the contract, unless the products and/or services are needed
beyond the initial term. Any products and/or services desired after the initial term will require
separate negotiations between the prime contractor and subcontractor. The State may deny
evaluation points if the letter(s) is not attached, not on company letterhead, not signed and/or does
not reference and match the subcontract amount, subcontract amount as a percentage of the
“TOTAL BID AMOUNT” and the anticipated period that the Subcontractor will perform work
for this solicitation.

By submission of the Proposal, the Respondent acknowledges and agrees to be bound by the
regulatory processes involving the State’s M/WBE Program. Questions involving the regulations
governing the MWBE Subcontractor Commitment Form should be directed to: Minority and
Women’s Business Enterprises Division at (317) 232-3061 or http://www.in.gov/idoa/2352.htm.

              MINORITY & WOMEN’S BUSINESS COMPLIANCE (MWBE)



                                                                     Request for Proposal 15 of 41
If awarded the contract with MWBE subcontractor participation, the Respondent is will be required
to report payments made to MWBE Division subcontractors under the Contract on a monthly basis
using the online audit tool, commonly referred to as “Pay Audit.” The Contractor should also notify
subcontractors that they must confirm payments received from Contractor in Pay Audit. The Pay
Audit system can be accessed on the IDOA webpage at: www.in.gov/idoa/mwbe/payaudit.htm

Further, a copy of each subcontractor agreement must be submitted to IDOA’s MWBE Division
within thirty (30) days of the effective date of this Contract. The contracts may be uploaded into Pay
Audit, emailed to MWBECompliance@idoa.IN.gov; or mailed to MWBE Compliance 402 W.
Washington Street, Indianapolis IN 46204. Failure to provide a copy of any subcontractor
agreement or failure to meet these commitments could be considered a material breach of this
Contract and result in sanctions per 25 IAC 5.

Any changes to this information during the term of the contract must be approved by MWBE
Compliance at MWBECompliance@idoa.IN.gov.

1.22   INDIANA VETERAN OWNED SMALL BUSINESS SUBCONTRACTOR
       COMMITMENT (IVOSB)

In accordance with Executive Order 13-04 and IC 5-22-14-3.5, it has been determined that there is a
reasonable expectation of Indiana Veteran Owned Small Business subcontracting opportunities on a
contract awarded under this RFP. The IVOSB Subcontractor Commitment Form is to be
submitted alongside the Respondent’s proposal. The Form must show that they are participating in
the proposed contract and IVOSB firms that meet the requirements listed at the Veteran’s Business
Program website (http://www.in.gov/idoa/2862.htm).

If participation is met through use of respondents who supply products and/or services directly to
the Respondent, the Respondent must provide a description of products and/or services provided
that are directly related to this proposal and the cost of direct supplies for this proposal.
Respondents must complete the Subcontractor Commitment Form in its entirety. The amount
entered in “TOTAL BID AMOUNT” should match the amount entered in the Attachment D,
Cost Proposal Template.

If the Respondent to the RFP is an IVOSB certified entity, the letter confirming same should be
submitted with their response. IDOA will verify the certification but will not check for it. Therefore
the Respondent has the responsibility to alert IDOA of their certification. The IVOSB Respondent
will receive the total points for the IVOSB evaluation criteria per section 3.2.7. Additional IVOSB
subcontractors must be included if the IVOSB Respondent is seeking the additional bonus point.

The IVOSB Respondent must list their company contact information only on the IVOSB
Subcontractor Commitment Form.

Failure to address these goals may impact the evaluation of your Proposal. The Department reserves
the right to verify all information included on the IVOSB Subcontractor Commitment Form.

Prime Contractors must ensure that the proposed IVOSB subcontractors meet the following
criteria:


                                                                    Request for Proposal 16 of 41
           Must be listed on Federal Center for Veterans Business Enterprise (VA OSDBU) registry
            or listed on the IDOA Directory of Certified Firms, on or before the proposal due date
           Prime Contractor must include with their proposal the subcontractor’s veteran business
            Certification Letter provided by either IDOA or Federal Govt. (VA OSDBU), to show
            current status of certification.
           Each firm may only serve as one classification – MBE, WBE (see Section 1.21) or IVOSB
           IVOSB must have a Bidder ID (see section 2.3.7 - Department of Administration,
            Procurement Division)
           A Prime Contractor who is an IVOSB can count their own workforce or companies to
            meet this requirement.
           Must serve a Valuable Scope Contribution (VSC). The firm must serve a value-
            added purpose on the engagement, as confirmed by the State.
           Must provide goods or service only in the industry area for which it is certified as listed in
            the VA OSDBU or IDOA Certified Firm directories http://www.in.gov/idoa/2352.htm
           Must be used to provide the goods or services specific to the contract

INDIANA VETERAN OWNED SMALL BUSINESS RFP SUBCONTRACTOR LETTER
                       OF COMMITMENT

A signed letter(s), on company letterhead, from the IVOSB must accompany the IVOSB
Subcontractor Commitment Form. Each letter shall state and will serve as acknowledgement from
the IVOSB of its subcontract amount, a description of products and/or services to be provided on
this project, and approximate date the subcontractor will perform work on this contract. The State
reserves the right to deny evaluation points if the letter(s) is not attached. The State may deny
evaluation points if the letter(s) is not attached, not on company letterhead, not signed and/or does
not reference and match the subcontract amount, subcontract amount as a percentage of the
“TOTAL BID AMOUNT” and the anticipated period that the Subcontractor will perform work
for this solicitation.

By submission of the Proposal, the Respondent acknowledges and agrees to be bound by the
policies and processes involving the State’s IVOSB Program. Questions involving the regulations
governing the IVOSB Subcontractor Commitment Form should be directed to:
indianaveteranspreference@idoa.in.gov.

1.23       AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT

The Respondent specifically agrees to comply with the provisions of the Americans with Disabilities
Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12101 et seq. and 47 U.S.C. 225).

1.24       SUMMARY OF MILESTONES

The following timeline is only an illustration of the RFP process. The dates associated with each
step are not to be considered binding. Due to the unpredictable nature of the evaluation period,
these dates are commonly subject to change. At the conclusion of the evaluation process, all
Respondents will be informed of the evaluation team’s findings.



                                                                       Request for Proposal 17 of 41
                                          Key RFP Dates
                         Activity                                             Date
 Issue of RFP                                                         November 20, 2019
                                                                       December 11, 2019
                                                                      Conference Room 17
 Pre-Proposal Conference
                                                                    10:00 AM Easteran Time
                                                               Indiana Government Center South
                                                                       December 13, 2019
 Deadline to Submit Written Questions
                                                                    by 3:00 PM Eastern Time
 Response to Written Questions/RFP Amendments                          December 18, 2019
                                                                        February 3, 2020
 Submission of Proposals
                                                                    by 3:00 PM Eastern Time
                                                                        February 3, 2020
 Submission of Reference Check Forms to State
                                                                    by 3:00 PM Eastern Time
       The dates for the following activities are target dates only. These activities may be
                          completed earlier or later than the date shown.
 Proposal Evaluation                                           February 3, 2020 – March 30, 2020
 Proposal Discussions/Clarifications (if necessary)               April 1, 2020 – April 3, 2020
 Oral Presentations (if necessary)                                April 1, 2020 – May 1, 2020
 Best and Final Offers (if necessary)                             May 1, 2020 – June 30, 2020
 RFP Award Recommendation                                                  July 1, 2020

1.26    CONFLICT OF INTEREST

Any person, firm or entity that assisted with and/or participated in the preparation of this RFP
document is prohibited from submitting a proposal to this specific RFP. For the purposes of this
RFP “person” means a State officer, employee, special State appointee, or any individual or entity
working with or advising the State or involved in the preparation of this RFP proposal. This
prohibition would also apply to an entity who hires, within a one-year period prior to the publication
of this RFP, a person that assisted with and/or participated in the preparation of this RFP.

1.26    PROCUREMENT PROTEST POLICY

The State’s procurement protest policy can be found in the State’s Procurement Protest Policy. Per
the policy, there are two periods of protest allowable for the RFP:
 Specifications Protest - written letter of protest regarding inadequate, unduly restrictive, or
    ambiguous requirements or specifications must be received by IDOA by the close of business
    not less than ten (10) business days (as defined by the State work calendar) prior to the proposal
    due date.


                                                                    Request for Proposal 18 of 41
   Award Recommendation Letter Protest - written letter of protest regarding the procurement
    methods and/or procedures used during the procurement process must be received by IDOA
    by the close of business within five (5) business days (as defined by the State work calendar)
    after the date of the Award Recommendation Letter.

Additional details as to the required content in the letter and the steps involved in a protest can be
found in the Procurement Protest Policy.




                                                                     Request for Proposal 19 of 41
                                  SECTION TWO
                       PROPOSAL PREPARATION INSTRUCTIONS

2.1    GENERAL

To facilitate the timely evaluation of proposals, a standard format for proposal submission has been
developed and is described in this section. All Respondents are required to format their proposals in
a manner consistent with the guidelines described below:
 Each item must be addressed in the Respondent’s proposal.
 Transmittal Letter: The transmittal letter must be in the form of a letter and address each
   component under Section 2.2.
 Provider Narrative: The provider narrative template (Attachment D), must be organized
   under the specific section title as listed in the RFP.
 Service Narrative: The service narrative template (Attachment E) must be organized under
   the specific section titles as listed in the RFP.
 Budget: The budget template must be used in response to the budget, see Attachment C.
   Respondents must submit one budget worksheet as defined in the Section 2.5 per service area.
 The electronic copies of the proposal submitted via CD-ROM should be organized to mirror the
   sections below and the attachments.
 Each item, i.e. Transmittal Letter, Provider Narrative, Service Narrative, Budget template, etc.,
   must be separate standalone electronic files on the CD-ROM. Please do not submit your
   proposal as one large file.
 Whenever possible, please submit all attachments in their original format.
 Confidential Information must also be clearly marked in a separate folder/file on any included
   CD-ROM.

2.2    TRANSMITTAL LETTER

Note: Respondents proposing for more than one (1) service area will need to provide a proposal for
each proposed service area including requested attachments.

The Transmittal Letter must address the following topics except those specifically identified as
“optional.”

       2.2.1   Agreement with Requirement listed in Section 1

               The Respondent must explicitly acknowledge understanding of the general
               information presented in Section 1 and agreement with any requirements/conditions
               listed in Section 1.

       2.2.2   Summary of Ability and Desire to provide Chafee Older Youth Services,
               Collaborative Care Placement and Supervision and Chafee Voluntary Services

               The Transmittal Letter must briefly summarize the Respondent’s ability to supply the
               requested Chafee Older Youth Services, Collaborative Care Placement and
               Supervision and Chafee Voluntary Services that meet the requirements defined in
               Section 2.4 of this RFP. The letter must also contain a statement indicating the

                                                                    Request for Proposal 20 of 41
              Respondent’s willingness to provide the requested Chafee Older Youth Services,
              Collaborative Care Placement and Supervision and Chafee Voluntary Services
              subject to the terms and conditions set forth in the RFP including, but not limited to,
              the State’s mandatory contract clauses.

      2.2.3   Signature of Authorized Representative

              A person authorized to commit the Respondent to its representations and who can
              certify that the information offered in the proposal meets all general conditions
              including the information requested in Section 2.3.4, must sign the Transmittal
              Letter. In the Transmittal Letter, please indicate the principal contact for the
              proposal along with an address, telephone and fax number as well as an e-
              mail address, if that contact is different than the individual authorized for
              signature.

      2.2.4   Respondent Notification

              Unless otherwise indicated in the Transmittal Letter, Respondents will be notified via
              e-mail.

              It is the Respondent’s obligation to notify the Indiana Older Youth Initiatives
              Manager, Services Division of any changes in any address that may have occurred
              since the origination of this solicitation. The Older Youth Initiatives, Services
              Division will not be held responsible for incorrect vendor/contractor/respondent
              addresses.

      2.2.5   Confidential Information

              Respondents are advised that materials contained in proposals are subject to the
              Access to Public Records Act (APRA), IC 5-14-3 et seq. (see section 1.15).

              Provide the following information:
               List all documents, or sections of documents, for which statutory exemption to
                 the APRA is being claimed;
               Specify which statutory exception of APRA applies for each document, or
                 section of the document;
               Provide a description explaining the manner in which the statutory exception to
                 the APRA applies for each document or section of the document.
               Provide a separate redacted (for public release) version of the document.

      2.2.6   Other Information

              This item is optional. Any other information the Respondent may wish to briefly
              summarize will be acceptable.

2.3   PROVIDER NARRATIVE


                                                                  Request for Proposal 21 of 41
The Business Proposal must address the following topics except those specifically identified as
“optional.” The Provider Narrative Template is Attachment D.

       2.3.1   General

               This section of the provider proposal may be used to introduce or summarize any
               information the Respondent deems relevant or important to the State’s successful
               acquisition of the Older Youth Services requested in this RFP.

       2.3.2   Respondent’s Company Structure

               This section must include the legal form of the Respondent’s business organization,
               the state in which formed (accompanied by a certificate of authority), the types of
               business ventures in which the organization is involved, and a chart of the
               organization are to be included in this section. If the organization includes more than
               one service, the division responsible for responding to the required RFP for the
               Older Youth Services must be described in more detail than other components of
               the organization.

       2.3.3   Company Financial Information

               This section must include documents to demonstrate the Respondent’s financial
               stability. Examples of acceptable documents include: most recent Dunn &
               Bradstreet Business Report (preferred) or audited financial statements for the two (2)
               most recently completed fiscal years. If neither of these can be provided, explain why
               and include an income statement and balance sheet, for each of the two most
               recently completed fiscal years.

               If the documents being provided by the Respondent are those of a parent or holding
               company, additional information should be provided for the entity/organization
               directly responding to this RFP. That additional information should explain the
               business relationship between the entities and demonstrate the financial stability of
               the entity/organization which is directly responding to this RFP.

       2.3.4   Integrity of Company Structure and Financial Reporting

               This section must include a statement indicating that the CEO and/or CFO, of the
               responding entity/organization, has taken personal responsibility for the
               thoroughness and correctness of any/all financial information supplied with this
               proposal. The particular areas of interest to the State in considering corporate
               responsibility include the following items: separation of audit functions from
               corporate boards and board members, if any, the manner in which the organization
               assures board integrity, and the separation of audit functions and consulting services.
               The State will consider the information offered in this section to determine the
               responsibility of the Respondent under IC 5-22-16-1(d).

       2.3.5   Contract Terms/Clauses


                                                                   Request for Proposal 22 of 41
        A sample contract that the State expects to execute with the successful
        Respondent(s) is provided in Attachment H. This contract contains both
        mandatory and non-mandatory clauses. Mandatory clauses are listed below and are
        non-negotiable. Other clauses are highly desirable. It is the State’s expectation that
        the final contract will be substantially similar to the sample contract provided in
        Attachment H.

        In your Transmittal Letter please indicate acceptance of these mandatory contract
        terms (see section 2.2.2). In this section please review the rest of the contract and
        indicate your acceptance of the non-mandatory contract clauses. If a non-mandatory
        clause is not acceptable as worded, suggest specific alternative wording to address
        issues raised by the specific clause. If you require additional contract terms please
        include them in this section. To reiterate it’s the State’s strong desire to not deviate
        from the contract provided in the attachment and as such the State reserves the right
        to reject any and all of these requested changes.

        The mandatory contract terms are as follows:

                       Duties of Contractor, Rate of Pay, and Term of Contract
                       Authority to Bind Contractor
                       Compliance with Laws
                       Drug-Free Workplace Provision and Certification
                       Employment Eligibility
                       Funding Cancellation
                       Governing Laws
                       Indemnification
                       Information Technology
                       Non-Discrimination Clause
                       Ownership of Documents and Materials
                       Payments
                       Penalties/Interest/Attorney’s Fees
                       Termination for Convenience
                       Non-Collusion and Acceptance

        Any or all portions of this RFP and any or all portions of the Respondents response
        may be incorporated as part of the final contract

2.3.6   Registration to do Business

        Secretary of State
        If awarded the contract, the Respondent will be required to be registered, and be in
        good standing, with the Secretary of State. The registration requirement is applicable
        to all limited liability partnerships, limited partnerships, corporations, S-corporations,
        nonprofit corporations and limited liability companies. The Respondent must
        indicate the status of registration, if applicable, in this section of the proposal.


                                                              Request for Proposal 23 of 41
        Department of Administration, Procurement Division
        Additionally, respondents must be registered with the IDOA. This can be
        accomplished on-line at http://www.in.gov/idoa/2464.htm.

        The IDOA Procurement Division maintains two databases of vendor information.
        The Bidder registration database is set up for vendors to register if you are interested
        in selling a product or service to the State of Indiana. Respondents may register on-
        line at no cost to become a Bidder with the State of Indiana. To complete the on-
        line Bidder registration, go to http://www.in.gov/idoa/2464.htm. The Bidder
        registration offers email notification of upcoming solicitation opportunities,
        corresponding to the Bidder’s area(s) of interest, selected during the registration
        process. Respondents do need to be registered to bid on and receive email
        notifications. Completion of the Bidder registration will result in your name being
        added to the Bidder’s Database, for email notification. The Bidder registration
        requires some general business information, an indication of the types of goods and
        services you can offer the State of Indiana, and locations(s) within the State that you
        can supply or service. There is no fee to be placed in Procurement Division’s Bidder
        Database. To receive an award, you must be registered as a bidder. Problems or
        questions concerning the registration process or the registration form can be e-
        mailed to Amey Redding, Vendor Registration Coordinator, aredding@idoa.in.gov,
        or you may reach her by phone at (317) 234-3542.

        IVOSB entities (whether a prime or subcontractor) must have a bidder ID. If
        registered with IDOA, this should have already been provided (as with MWBEs).
        IVOSBs that are only registered with the Federal Center for Veterans Business
        Enterprise will need to ensure that they also have a Bidder ID provided by IDOA.

2.3.7   Authorizing Document

        Respondent personnel signing the Transmittal Letter of the proposal must be legally
        authorized by the organization to commit the organization contractually. This
        section shall contain proof of such authority. A copy of corporate bylaws or a
        corporate resolution adopted by the board of directors indicating this authority will
        fulfill this requirement.

2.3.8   Subcontractors

        The Respondent is responsible for the performance of any obligations that may
        result from this RFP, and shall not be relieved by the non-performance of any
        subcontractor. Any Respondent’s proposal must identify all subcontractors and
        describe the contractual relationship between the Respondent and each
        subcontractor. Either a copy of the executed subcontract or a letter of agreement
        over the official signature of the firms involved must accompany each proposal.

        Any subcontracts entered into by the Respondent must be in compliance with all
        State statutes, and will be subject to the provisions thereof. For each portion of the
        proposed products or services to be provided by a subcontractor, the technical


                                                             Request for Proposal 24 of 41
        proposal must include the identification of the functions to be provided by the
        subcontractor and the subcontractor’s related qualifications and experience.

        The combined qualifications and experience of the Respondent and any or all
        subcontractors will be considered in the State’s evaluation. The Respondent must
        furnish information to the State as to the amount of the subcontract, the
        qualifications of the subcontractor for guaranteeing performance, and any other data
        that may be required by the State. All subcontracts held by the Respondent must be
        made available upon request for inspection and examination by appropriate State
        officials, and such relationships must meet with the approval of the State.

        The Respondent must list any subcontractor’s name, address and the state in which
        formed that are proposed to be used in providing the required products or services.
        The subcontractor’s responsibilities under the proposal, anticipated dollar amount
        for subcontract, the subcontractor’s form of organization, and an indication from the
        subcontractor of a willingness to carry out these responsibilities are to be included
        for each subcontractor. This assurance in no way relieves the Respondent of any
        responsibilities in responding to this RFP or in completing the commitments
        documented in the proposal. The Respondent must indicate which, if any,
        subcontractors qualify as a Minority, Women, or Veteran Owned Business under IC
        4-13-16.5-1 and Executive Order 13-04 and IC 5-22-14-3.5. See Sections 1.21, 1.22
        and Attachments A/A1 for Minority, Women, and Veteran Business information.

        IVOSB entities (whether a prime or subcontractor) must have a bidder ID. If
        registered with IDOA, this should have already been provided (as with MWBEs).
        IVOSBs that are only registered with the Federal Center for Veterans Business
        Enterprise will need to ensure that they also have a Bidder ID provided by IDOA
        (please see section 2.3.7, Department of Administration, Procurement Division for
        details).

2.3.9   General Information

        Each Respondent must enter your company’s general information including contact
        information.

2.3.10 Experience Serving State Governments

        Each Respondent is asked to please provide a brief description of your company’s
        experience in serving state governments and/or quasi-governmental accounts.

2.3.11 Experience Serving Similar Clients

        Each Respondent is asked to please describe your company’s experience in serving
        clients of a similar size to the State that also had a similar scope. Please provide
        specific clients and detailed examples.




                                                            Request for Proposal 25 of 41
        2.3.12 Indiana Preferences

               Pursuant to IC 5-22-15-7, Respondent may claim only one (1) preference. For the
               purposes of this RFP, this limitation to claiming one (1) preference applies to
               Respondent’s ability to claim eligibility for Buy Indiana points. Respondent must
               clearly indicate which preference(s) they intend to claim. Additionally, the
               Respondent’s Buy Indiana status must be finalized when the RFP response is
               submitted to the State.

        2.3.13 Buy Indiana

               Refer to Section 2.7 for additional information.

               Buy Indiana
               Refer to Section 2.7 for additional information.


2.4     SERVICE NARRATIVE

The Service Narrative must be divided into the sections as described below. Every point made in
each section must be addressed in the order given. The same outline numbers must be used in the
response. RFP language should not be repeated within the response. Where appropriate, supporting
documentation may be referenced by a page and paragraph number. However, when this is done,
the body of the service narrative must contain a meaningful summary of the referenced material.
The referenced document must be included as an appendix to the service narrative with referenced
sections clearly marked. If there are multiple references or multiple documents, these must be listed
and organized for ease of use by the State. The Service Narrative Template is Attachment E.

The Service Narrative must identify and meet service components within the Service Standards and
Protocol (See Attachment A for Service Standards and Attachment B for Protocol). Proposals
must identify outcomes consistent with those identified in the OYS Service Standards. Proposals
must demonstrate the organizational and procedural structure that is necessary to deliver the services
proposed in the OYS Service Standards and OYS Protocol.

If the Respondent is proposing for more than one service area, the Respondent must submit a
Service Narrative template for each proposed service area.

2.4.1   Program Name / Intake / Referral Process
        Describe program name, intake and referral process to be utilized in the program including
        Respondent’s procedure/methods for a guaranteed time frame for initiation of services.

        2.4.2 Service Demographics
        Using the youth and placement data analysis (Attachment N) define the target population
        for older youth services, extended foster care / collaborative care and voluntary services, the
        geographical service area, and provide the projected number of clients the Provider/Agency
        intends to serve.



                                                                     Request for Proposal 26 of 41
2.4.3 Practice Model / Service Delivery
Describe Evidence-Based and/or Best Practice Model consistent with the Older Youth
Services Service Standards and Protocol to be utilized in delivering the program as well as
Respondent’s experience and training related to the service delivery model. Include
estimated length of service and methods used (i.e. face to face or group). If Respondent is
utilizing a different Evidence-Based/Best Practice Model for the services different from
what is described in the Service Standards and Protocol; you must justify the service delivery
method/model(s) to be utilized and how it is in correlation with delivering independent
living services to older youth in foster care. Respondents must describe specifically how
older youth services will be delivered. Please address for the following:
A. Describe service delivery in the following performance measures:
      Employment
      Education
      Housing
      Financial and Asset Management
      Physical and Mental Health
      Activities of Daily Living
      Youth Engagement
B. Describe service delivery with special population
      Pregnant and Parenting Youth
      LGBTQ
      Youth with Disabilities
Proposals should address any differences in programming anticipated in the varying service
areas, for example any program changes due to delivering services in a rural versus urban
area.

2.4.4 Extended Foster Care (Collaborative Care) Placement & Supervision
Collaborative Care is Indiana’s extended foster care program. This program provides young
adults the option to remain under the care and supervision of the Department until their
older youth services goals are met. Under extended foster care young adults are able to step
down into an apartment or shared apartment setting. Describe how your agency will
provided placement, supervision and services. This section should document the following:
A. Plan to assist youth in transitioning into interdependence.
B. Plan to assist youth in building social capital.
C. Plan for disbursing funds to youth.
     What are the timeframes and transition plan for youth to pay their own bills
     Plan for youth to save a portion of their income to create a savings i.e. Nesting
        Accounts
D. Plan to assist youth in locating affordable, safe and stable housing
     Document capacity to pay youths rent.
     Document capacity to co-sign leases for multiple youth
     Document how your agency will engage and support youth in living interdependently
        in an apartment setting.
E. Document capacity and plan to meet the 24/7 contact requirement

2.4.5   Chafee Voluntary Older Youth Services

                                                            Request for Proposal 27 of 41
      Youth and / or young adults who age out of foster care are able to continue participating in
      older youth voluntary services. Identify the age range youth / young adults are able to
      participate in voluntary services and your agency’s plan to assist youth transition from
      services.

      2.4.6 Brokerage of Services / Collaborations
      Describe your agencies plan to utilize the brokerage of services model. Identify how your
      agency will collaborate and partner with other community stakeholders, agencies, and
      programs to enhance service delivery and array. Describe how youth will be provided with
      an intensive level of service delivery and knowledge of their community resources.
      A. Complete and attach the Broker Partnership Form (Attachment K) detailing current or
          future collaborations and partnerships within the proposed service area. Describe how
          your agency will broker services and develop new partnerships on an ongoing bases.
      B. Respondent should address and outline a plan to partner with local landlords on
          negotiating rent and the possibility of continuing one lease for multiple youth if the first
          youth cannot fulfill the lease terms.

      2.4.7 Case Management & Authentic Youth Engagement
      Describe how your agency will apply the case management styles as referenced in the older
      youth service standards. How will your agency provide direct case management to youth to
      ensure appropriate and individualized services are delivered?
      Describe how your agency will apply the older youth services foundational pillars of
      authentic youth engagement to the case management. How will your agency ensure service
      delivery remains youth focused in all activities and decision points in the life of the youth?

      2.4.8 Program Evaluation
      Describe how your agency will evaluate service gaps consistent with the CQI process model
      as identified in the older youth service standard. Identify how your agency will address
      service gaps to enhance service array for youth within the proposed service area. Proposal
      should documents how the provider will use data to inform program evaluation.
      Describe how your agency will utilize youth voice to enhance service delivery. How with the
      youth satisfaction survey be used to inform service delivery.

      2.4.9 Quality Assurance
      Respondents shall describe their agency’s ability to maintain a quality assurance and/or
      performance improvement system and must submit an overview of its quality assurance
      and/or performance improvement plan. Describe the capacity to collect data, review client
      files, timeliness of life skills assessments, learning plans and documentation service delivery.

      2.4.10 Staffing Qualifications / Training
      Respondents should identify the agency’s ability to meet the staffing qualifications. Include
      Job Descriptions for positions associated with this RFP: Older Youth Services.
      Respondents should address the agency’s ability to provide training and meet the DCS
      training requirements for services as well as provide ongoing training on best practices with
      serving the older youth in foster care.

2.5   BUDGET


                                                                    Request for Proposal 28 of 41
The Budget Template is Attachment C.
To determine the proposed program cost of each budget under older youth services within each service area,
the Respondent’s should use the DCS Youth and Placement Analysis document (Attachment N). The
budget and corresponding worksheet must be submitted in the original format. Any attempt to manipulate
the format, attach caveats to pricing, or submit pricing that deviates from the current format will put your
proposal at risk. The Budget Template is Attachment C

A budget and corresponding worksheets (Attachment C) are required for each service under Older Youth
Services:
     Budget 1: Chafee Independent Living Service
     Budget 2: Collaborative Care-Placement and Supervision
     Budget 4: Chafee Voluntary Services - ONLY

Note: Respondents proposing for more than one service area, will need to complete a budget template for
each OYS budget within each proposed service area

Older Youth Services contracts will be cost reimbursement contracts, generally not to exceed the contract
amount. The contract amount for each provider and service component will be based on the service
component budget submitted by the provider and approved/accepted by DCS after its review for
reasonableness and allowability (See Allowable and Unallowable Costs section below).
Each provider will submit monthly expense summaries in the format of the Pro Forma Budget template (see
Attachment C) attached to the monthly invoice for each service component. DCS will reimburse each
provider on a monthly basis for all allowable and reasonable expenses submitted by the provider. Actual
monthly costs and expenses submitted to DCS for reimbursement must conform to the cost structure of the
pro forma budget approved by DCS.

DCS will continue to reimburse actual allowable and reasonable costs for each service component
until DCS’s year-to-date payments equal the contract amount for that service component. Contracts
will be amended and payments will be made beyond the original contract amount only if the number
of service days provided by the provider for a given service component exceeds the number of
service days assumed in the Pro Forma Budget for that service component and has been authorized
and approved in advance by DCS.

The budget must be submitted in the original format. Any attempt to manipulate the format of the
Cost Proposal document, attach caveats to pricing, or submit pricing that deviates from the current
format will put your proposal at risk.

Budget Justification

Detailed budget instructions have been provided on Attachment C Explanation of Pro Forma
Budget Worksheet, Pro Forma Budget Justification Worksheet, and Pro Forma Budget Summary

The provider agrees to follow generally accepted accounting procedures and practices which
sufficiently and properly reflect all costs incurred by the provider in providing services for payment
pursuant to this contract. The provider shall manage and account for all funds received under this
contract in accordance with applicable cost principles specified in one of the following federal
regulations: OMB Circular A-122 if the provider is a non-profit organization; or 48 CFR Subpart
31.2 if the provider is a for-profit or other business or commercial organization.


                                                                        Request for Proposal 29 of 41
Allowable and Unallowable Costs
The U.S Department of Health and Human Services’ Child Welfare Policy Manual directs that costs
must be allowable under 45 CFR Part 92 (Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and
Cooperative Agreements to State and Local Governments). 45 CFR Part 92 states that grant funds
may be used only for the allowable costs of the grantees, sub-grantees and cost-type contractors.
For each kind of organization, there is a set of Federal principles for determining allowable costs.
Allowable costs will be determined in accordance with the cost principles applicable to the
organization incurring the cost. For state, local, and Indian tribunal governments, 45 CFR Part 92
instructs that OMB Circular A-87 should be followed. For private nonprofit organizations (other
than institutions of higher education and hospitals), OMB Circular A-122 should be followed. For
for-profit organizations (other than hospitals), 48 CFR Part 31 should be followed.

The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services has also stated in its Child Welfare Policy
Manual that “costs must be reasonable, that is, no more than the customary costs for performing
similar functions in similar institutions”.
To be allowable under a Federal award, cost must meet the following general criteria as outlined in
Federal OMB Circular A-122 (Cost Principles for Nonprofit Organizations):
    a. Be reasonable for the performance of the award and be allocable thereto under the
         principles of OMB Circular A-122.
    b. Conform to any limitations or exclusions set forth in the principles of OMB Circular A-122
         or in the award as to types or amount of cost items.
    c. Be consistent with policies and procedures that apply uniformly to both federally financed
         and other activities of the organization.
    d. Be accorded consistent treatment.
    e. Be accorded with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).
    f. Not be included as a cost or used to meet cost sharing or matching requirements of any
         other federally financed program in either the current or a prior period.
    g. Be adequately documented.

Federal OMB Circular A-122 establishes principles for determining costs of grants, contracts, and
other agreements with nonprofit organizations.
According OMB Circular A-122, a cost is reasonable if, in its nature and amount, it does not exceed
that which would be incurred by a prudent person under the circumstances prevailing at the time the
decision was made to incur the costs. The question of reasonableness of specific costs must be
scrutinized with particular care in connection with organizations or separate divisions thereof which
receive the preponderance of their support from awards made by Federal agencies. In determining
the reasonableness of a given cost, OMB Circular A-122 states that consideration shall be given to:
    a. Whether the cost is of a type generally recognized as ordinary and necessary for the
         operation of the organization or the performance of the award.
    b. The restraints or requirements imposed by such factors as generally accepted sound
         business practices, arm’s length bargaining, Federal and State laws and regulations, and
         terms and conditions of the award.
    c. Whether the individuals concerned acted with prudence, considering their responsibilities
         to the organization, its members, employees, and clients, the public at large, and the Federal
         government,
    d. Significant deviations from the established practices of the organization which may
         unjustifiably increase the award costs.


                                                                    Request for Proposal 30 of 41
Federal OMB Circular A-87 establishes principles and standards for determining costs of Federal
awards carried out through grants, cost reimbursement contracts, and other agreements with State
and local governments and federally recognized Indian tribunal governments. By utilizing a cost
reimbursement methodology for establishing payment rates, DCS must adhere to these principles to
ensure that Federal matching funds are appropriately claimed.

According to OMB Circular A-87, to be allowable under Federal awards, costs must meet the
following criteria:
    a. Be necessary and reasonable for proper and efficient performance and administration of
        Federal awards.
    b. Be allocable to Federal awards under the provisions of this circular.
    c. Be authorized or not prohibited under State or local laws or regulations.
    d. Conform to any limitations or exclusions as set forth in these principles, Federal laws, terms
        and conditions of the Federal award, or other governing regulations as to the types or
        amounts of cost items.
    e. Be consistent with policies, regulations, and procedures that apply uniformly to both Federal
        awards and other activities of the government unit.
    f. Be accorded consistent treatment.
    g. Except as otherwise provided in the Circular, be determined in accordance with generally
        accepted accounting principles.
    h. Not be included as a cost or used to meet cost sharing or matching requirements of any
        other Federal award.
    i. Be net of all applicable credits (e.g. purchase discounts, rebates and allowances, insurance
        recoveries, other Federal funding).
    j. Be adequately documented.

OMB Circular A-87 defines a reasonable cost as, if in its nature or amount, it does not exceed that
which would be incurred by a prudent person under the circumstances prevailing at the time the
decision was made to incur the cost. In determining reasonableness of a given cost, OMB Circular
A-87 states that consideration should be given to:
    a. Whether the cost is of a type generally recognized as ordinary and necessary for the
        operation of the government unit or the performance of the award.
    b. The restraints or requirements imposed by such factors as generally accepted sound business
        practices, arm’s length bargaining, Federal and State laws and regulations, and terms and
        conditions of the award.
    c. Market prices for comparable goods or services.
    d. Whether the individuals concerned acted with prudence, considering their responsibilities to
        the government unit, its members, employees, and clients, the public at large, and the
        Federal government.
    e. Significant deviations from the established practices of the organization which may
        unjustifiably increase the award costs.

According to the Code of Federal Regulations, 48 CFR Part 31, Section 201-2, a cost is allowable
only when the cost complies with all of the following requirements:
    a. Reasonableness.
    b. Allocability.
    c. Standards promulgated by the CAS Board, if applicable, otherwise, generally accepted
       accounting principles and practices appropriate to the circumstances.
                                                                   Request for Proposal 31 of 41
   d. Terms of the contract.
   e. Any limitations set forth in this subpart.

When contractor or provider accounting practices are inconsistent with this section of the code,
costs resulting from such inconsistent practices in excess of the amount that would have resulted
from using practices consistent with this subpart are unallowable.

A contractor or provider is responsible for accounting for costs appropriately and for maintaining
records, including supporting documentation, adequate to demonstrate that costs claimed have been
incurred, are allocable to the contract, and comply with applicable cost principles in this subpart and
agency supplements. The contracting officer may disallow all or part of a claimed cost that is
inadequately supported.

According to 48 CFR Part 31 Section 201-3 a cost is reasonable if, in its nature and amount, it does
not exceed that which would be incurred by a prudent person in the conduct of competitive
business. Reasonableness of specific costs must be examined with particular care in connection with
firms or their separate divisions that may not be subject to effective competitive restraints. No
presumption of reasonableness shall be attached to the incurrence of costs by a contractor. If an
initial review of the facts results in a challenge of a specific cost by the contracting officer or the
contracting officer's representative, the burden of proof shall be upon the contractor to establish
that such cost is reasonable.

48 CFR Part 31 Section 201-3 further states that what is reasonable depends upon a variety of
considerations and circumstances, including:
       a.      Whether it is the type of cost generally recognized as ordinary and necessary for the
       conduct of the contractor's business or the contract performance;
       b.      Generally accepted sound business practices, arm's length bargaining, and Federal
       and State laws and regulations;
       c.      The contractor's responsibilities to the Government, other customers, the owners of
       the business, employees, and the public at large; and
       d.      Any significant deviations from the contractor's established practices.

Consistent with Federal guidelines, DCS will not pay any provider for certain unallowable expenses
and costs. The unallowable costs and expenses will not be considered by the Department.
Unallowable costs and expenses must be paid with funds secured from a funding source other than
the department. Following the specific language of OMB Circular A-122 and consistent with OMB
Circular A-87, the following costs are unallowable:
        a.   Fines and penalties resulting from violations of, or failure of the organization to
             comply with Federal, State, or local laws and regulations, except when incurred as a
             result of compliance with specific provisions a contract with the department or
             instructions in writing from the department.
        b. Investment management counsel and staff and similar expenses incurred solely to
             enhance income from investments.
        c.   Costs associated with the following lobbying activities:
                a. Attempts to influence the outcomes of any Federal, State, or local election,
                    referendum, initiative, or similar procedure, through in-kind or cash
                    contributions, endorsements, publicity, or similar activity;

                                                                     Request for Proposal 32 of 41
         b. Establishing, administering, contributing to, or paying the expenses of a political
              party, campaign, political action committee, or other organization established for
              the purpose of influencing the outcomes of elections;
         c. Any attempt to influence the introduction of Federal or State legislation or the
              enactment or modification of any pending Federal or State legislation through
              communication with any member or employee of the Congress or State
              legislature or with any government official or employee in connection with a
              decision to sign or veto enrolled legislation;
         d. Any attempt to influence the introduction of Federal or State legislation or the
              enactment or modification of any pending Federal or State legislation by
              preparing, distributing or using publicity or propaganda, of by urging members
              of the general public or any segment thereof to contribute to or participate in any
              mass demonstration, march, rally, fundraising drive, lobbying campaign, or letter
              writing or telephone campaign; and
         e. Legislative liaison activities, including attendance at legislative sessions or
              committee hearings, gathering information regarding legislation, and analyzing
              the effect of legislation, when such activities are carried on in support of or in
              knowing preparation for an effort to engage in unallowable lobbying.
   Excluded from the disallowances outlined above are 1) providing a technical or factual
   presentation of information on a topic directly related to the performance of a grant,
   contract, or other agreement through hearing testimony, statements or letters to the
   Congress or State legislature, or subdivision thereof in response to a documented request
   by the recipient member, legislative body, or subdivision thereof; 2) any lobbying to
   influence State legislation in order to directly reduce the cost, or to avoid material
   impairment of the organization’s authority to perform the grant, contract, or other
   agreement; and 3) any activity specifically authorized by statute to be undertaken with
   funds from the grant, contract, or other agreement.
d. Organized fundraising, including financial campaigns, endowment drives, solicitation
       of gifts and bequests, and similar expenses incurred solely to raise capital or obtain
       contributions.
e.     Donations and contributions including cash, property, and services made by the
       organization, regardless of the recipient.
f.     Donated goods or services received by the organization, except when donated services
       utilized in the performance of a direct cost activity are material in amount.
g.     Bad debts including losses arising from uncollectible accounts and other claims, related
       collection costs, and related legal costs.
h. Compensation and special benefits, including fringe benefits, to owners in excess of
       amounts reasonable for the services rendered. Compensation will be considered
       reasonable and allowable to the extent that it is comparable to that paid for similar
       work in the labor markets in which the organization competes for the kind of
       employees involved. OMB Circular A-87 states that compensation surveys providing
       data representative of the labor market involved will be an acceptable basis for
       evaluating reasonableness.
i.     Entertainment including amusement, diversion, and social activities and any costs
       directly associated with such costs (such as tickets to shows or sports events, meals,
       lodging, rentals, transportation, and gratuities), except those reasonable expenditures
       specifically for the benefit of youth placed by DCS with the provider.
j.     Alcoholic beverages.
                                                             Request for Proposal 33 of 41
k.   Litigation expenses and fees if the proceeding (A) relates to a violation of, or failure to
     comply with, a Federal, State, local, or foreign statute or regulation by the organization
     (including its agents and employees and (B) results in a conviction in a criminal
     proceeding, a determination of liability in a civil or administrative proceeding involving
     an allegation of fraud or similar misconduct, the imposition of a monetary penalty in
     any civil or administrative proceeding, termination of the contract with the department
     by reason of a violation or failure to comply with a law or regulation, or a disposition
     by consent or compromise if the action could have resulted in any of the proceeding
     dispositions.
l.   Mortgage and loan principal payments. Principal payments represent the return of
     capital component of a mortgage or loan payment. Depreciation, also a return of
     capital, is an allowable cost. To allow both depreciation and principal payments would
     result in double counting the return of capital. Interest expense, the return on capital
     component of a mortgage or loan payment, is an allowable cost.
m.   Contingency reserves or similar provisions made for events the occurrence of which
     cannot be foretold with certainty as to time, intensity, or with an assurance of their
     happening. However, this disallowance excludes self-insurance reserves, pension
     funds, and normal severance pay.
n.   Advertising and public relations except those which are solely for the recruitment of
     personnel, the procurement of goods or services necessary to support the program,
     and other specific purposes necessary to meet the requirements of the department.
o.   Housing of non-clients, Taxes from which exemptions are available to the provider
     directly, or which are available to the provider based on an exemption afforded by the
     federal government when the awarding agency makes available the necessary
     exemption certificates.
p.   Federal income taxes.
q.   Profit margin for any nonprofit entity. Profit margin represents the return on
     shareholders’ equity. Unlike for profit entities, nonprofit entities do not have
     shareholders or capital at risk, hence it is not reasonable or appropriate to allow a
     profit margin. The rules do not prohibit nonprofit entities from earning a profit
     margin in any given year. They simply do not provide for a guaranteed profit margin
     to be built into the nonprofit’s cost structure and payment rates. Any needed
     operating reserves should be collected through fundraising activities. Donations,
     contributions, and other private grants are not considered to be credits to be netted
     against a providers costs when determining net costs to be reimbursed though the
     payment rates.
r.   Non straight line depreciation except where clear evidence indicates that the expected
     consumption of the asset will be significantly greater or lesser in the early portions of
     its useful life than in later portions of its useful life.

The following costs and expenses will be considered by the Department to be unallowable
costs and will not be considered:
a. Salaries: Amounts exceeding the maximum allowable amount as determined by DCS.
b. Fringe benefits (including payroll taxes): Amounts exceeding the maximum allowable
    fringe benefit rate (including payroll taxes) as determined by the department.
c.    Case management caseload ratios: Costs associated with case management staff in
    significant excess of reasonable caseload ratios as determined by the department.

                                                             Request for Proposal 34 of 41
         d. Total administrative costs: Administrative costs (including direct and indirect
            administrative costs) in excess of the maximum allowable total administrative expense
            rate as determined by the department.

These contracts do not include behavioral health services.

Audits
The provider acknowledges that it may be required to submit to an audit of funds paid through a
contract awarded from this RFP. Any such audit shall be conducted in accordance with IC 5-11-1 et
seq., and audit guidelines specified by the State.

DCS considers the awarded provider(s) to be a “vendor,” for purposes of the awarded contract
from this RFP. However, if required pursuant to the applicable provisions of the Office of
Management and Budget Circular A-133 (Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit
Organizations), following the expiration of the awarded contract from this RFP, the provider shall
arrange for a financial and compliance audit of funds provided by the State pursuant to the awarded
contract from this RFP. Such audit is to be conducted by an independent public or certified public
accountant (or as applicable, the Indiana State Board of Accounts), and performed in accordance
with the Indiana State Board of Accounts publication entitled "Uniform Compliance Guidelines for
Examination of Entities Receiving Financial Assistance from Governmental Sources," and
applicable provisions of the Office of Management and Budget Circular A-133 (Audits of States,
Local Governments, and Non-Profit Organizations). The provider is responsible for ensuring that
the audit and any management letters are completed and forwarded to the State in accordance with
the terms of this Contract. Audits conducted pursuant to this Section must be submitted no later
than nine (9) months following the close of the provider's fiscal year. The provider agrees to
provide the Indiana State Board of Accounts and the State an original of all financial and compliance
audits. The audit shall be an audit of the actual entity, or distinct portion thereof that is the
provider, and not of a parent, member, or Subsidiary Corporation of the provider, except to the
extent such an expanded audit may be determined by the Indiana State Board of Accounts or the
State to be in the best interests of the State. The audit shall include a statement from the Auditor
that the Auditor has reviewed this Contract and that the provider is not out of compliance with the
financial aspects of the awarded contract from this RFP. The provider shall permit all examinations
and shall generate and maintain all documentation necessary to comply with all relevant audit
requirements.

Financial Strength Indicator
DCS believes that Respondents to this RFP should be of sound financial strength. DCS is
requesting that each Respondent show evidence of the Respondent’s financial strength.
A Respondent’s financial strength will be calculated as shown below:

Based on Average Days of Working Capital Available in Cash and Cash Equivalents:

           Cash and Cash Equivalents
           -----------------------------------------   =   Number of Days Working Capital
           Average Daily Working Capital

Where:

                                                                         Request for Proposal 35 of 41
Cash and Cash Equivalents equals: the most recently completed quarter-end sum of 1) cash; 2)
marketable securities; and 3) available lines of credit for the operating agency.
Average Daily Working Capital equals: total direct and indirect expenses for entire operating agency
for most recently completed four quarter period divided by 365.

Bidder must calculate their Days of Working Capital and provide:
          a) Total operating agency income statement for most recently completed four quarter
               period.
          b) Most recently completed quarter end balance sheet.
          c) Summary of terms and conditions of any line of credit agreement to which the
               operating agency is a party and available balance as of date of submission of RFP
               response.
          d) Most recent audited financial statements.

Supplemental Support
DCS believes that bidders to this RFP should be rewarded for their ability to provide supplemental
support for their program.

Bidder will describe the degree to which existing funding for the programs being submitted within
this RFP are supplemented through external sources. These sources could include but are not
limited to:
      Foundation Grants
      Government Grants (local, county, other state agencies, and/or federal)
      Donations and Contributions
      Corporate Sponsorships
      In-kind Donations
      Donated Services
      Special Event Revenue (net of expenses)
      Volunteers
      Other Community Resources

Bidder will provide a description of the supplemental supports and any documentation that provides
the source and amount of any supplemental funding.

2.6    INDIANA ECONOMIC IMPACT

All companies desiring to do business with State Agencies must complete an “Indiana Economic
Impact” form (Attachment IDOA 2). This is not a separate evaluation item scored as set forth in
3.2 but still a required form. The collection and recognition of the information collected with the
Indiana Economic Impact form places a strong emphasis on the economic impact a project will
have on Indiana and its residents regardless of where a business is located. The collection of this
information does not restrict any company or firm from doing business with the State. The amount
entered in Line 16 “Total amount of this proposal, bid, or current contract” should match the
amount entered in the Attachment C, Budget Template.




                                                                   Request for Proposal 36 of 41
2.7     BUY INDIANA INITIATIVE/INDIANA COMPANY

It is the Respondent’s responsibility to confirm its Buy Indiana status for this portion of the process.
If a Respondent has previously registered its business with IDOA, go to
http://www.in.gov/idoa/2464.htm and click on the link to update this registration. Click the tab
titled Buy Indiana. Select the appropriate category for your business. Respondents may only select
one category. Certify this selection by clicking the check box next to the certification paragraph.
Once this is complete, save your selection and exit your account.

Respondents that have not previously registered with IDOA must go to
http://www.in.gov/idoa/2464.htm and click on the link to register. During the registration process,
follow the steps outlined in the paragraph above to certify your business’ status. The registration
process should be complete at the time of proposal submission.

Additionally, Respondents that wish to claim the Buy Indiana preference (for any criteria
listed below) must have an email confirmation of their Buy Indiana status provided by
buyindianainvest@idoa.in.gov included in the proposal response. The email confirmation
must have been provided from within one year prior to the proposal due date.

Respondents must also fully complete the Indiana Economic Impact form (Attachment IDOA 2)
and include it with their proposal response.

Defining an Indiana Business:

“Indiana business” refers to any of the following:
       (1) A business whose principal place of business is located in Indiana.
       (2) A business that pays a majority of its payroll (in dollar volume) to residents of Indiana.
       (3) A business that employs Indiana residents as a majority of its employees.
       (4) A business that makes significant capital investments in Indiana.
       (5) A business that has a substantial positive economic impact on Indiana.

Substantial Capital Investment:
Any company that can demonstrate a minimum capital investment in Indiana of $5 million or more
in plant and/or equipment or annual lease payments in Indiana of $2.5 million or more shall qualify
as an Indiana business under I.C.5-22-15-20.5 (b)(4).

Substantial Indiana Economic Impact:
Any company that is in the top 500 companies (adjusted) for one of the following categories:
number of employees (DWD), unemployment taxes (DWD), payroll withholding taxes (DOR), or
Corporate Income Taxes (DOR); it shall qualify as an Indiana business under I.C. 5-22-15-20.5
(b)(5).




                                                                     Request for Proposal 37 of 41
                                      SECTION THREE
                                   PROPOSAL EVALUATION

3.1     PROPOSAL EVALUATION PROCEDURE

The Indiana Department of Child Services has selected a group of personnel to act as a proposal
evaluation team from each service area. Subgroups of this team, consisting of one or more team
members, will be responsible for evaluating proposals with regard to compliance with RFP
requirements. All evaluation personnel will use the evaluation criteria stated in Section 3.2.

The procedure for evaluating the proposals against the evaluation criteria will be as follows:

        3.1.1   Each proposal will be evaluated for adherence to requirements on a pass/fail basis.
                Proposals that are incomplete or otherwise do not conform to proposal submission
                requirements may be eliminated from consideration.

        3.1.2   Each proposal will be evaluated on the basis of the categories included in Section
                3.2. A point score has been established for each category.

        3.1.3   Based on the results of this evaluation, the qualifying proposal determined to be the
                most advantageous to Stats identified service area, taking into account all of the
                evaluation factors, may be selected by the Indiana Department of Child Services for
                further action, such as contract negotiations. If, however, the Indiana Department of
                Child Services decide that no proposal is sufficiently advantageous to the State’s
                identified service areas, the State may take whatever further action is deemed
                necessary to fulfill its needs. If, for any reason, a proposal is selected and it is not
                possible to consummate a contract with the Respondent, Indiana Department of
                Child Services may begin contract preparation with the next qualified Respondent or
                determine that no such alternate proposal exists.

3.2     EVALUATION CRITERIA

Proposals will be evaluated based upon the proven ability of the Respondent to satisfy the
requirements of the RFP in a cost-effective manner. Each of the evaluation criteria categories is
described below with a brief explanation of the basis for evaluation in that category. The points
associated with each category are indicated following the category name (a minimum of 95 points).
Points earned from DCS’s review will be combined with IDOA requirement review for a final
maximum score of 100 total points. If any one or more of the listed criteria on which the responses
to this RFP will be evaluated are found to be inconsistent or incompatible with applicable federal
laws, regulations or policies, the specific criterion or criteria will be disregarded and the responses
will be evaluated and scored without taking into account such criterion or criteria.

                                     Summary of Evaluation Criteria:
                       Criteria                                             Points
1. Adherence to Mandatory Requirements                                    Pass/Fail



                                                                     Request for Proposal 38 of 41
2. Provider Narrative                                                5 available points

3. Service Narrative                                                70 available points
4. Budget                                                           25 available points
Total Minimum Score                                                          100

All proposals will be evaluated using the following approach.

Step 1

In this step proposals will be evaluated only against Criteria 1 to ensure that they adhere to
Mandatory Requirements. Any proposals not meeting the Mandatory Requirements will be
disqualified.

Step 2

The proposals that meet the Mandatory Requirements will then be scored based on Criteria 2
through Criteria 4 ONLY. This scoring will have a maximum possible score of 95 points with a
potential of 5 bonus points if certain criteria are met. All proposals will be ranked on the basis of
their combined scores for Criteria 2 through 4 ONLY. This ranking will be used to create a “short
list”. Any proposal not making the “short list” will not be considered for any further evaluation.

Step 2 may include one or more rounds of proposal discussions, oral presentations, clarifications,
demonstrations, etc. focused on cost and other proposal elements. Step 2 may include additional
“short lists”.

Step 3

The short-listed proposals will then be sent to IDOA for final evaluation based on IDOA’s
requirements.

The section below describes the different evaluation criteria.

         3.2.1   Adherence to Requirements – Pass/Fail
                 Respondents passing this category move to Phase 2 and proposal is evaluated for
                 Management Assessment/Quality and Price.

         The following 3 categories cannot exceed 100 points.

         3.2.2   Provider Narrative 5 available points

         3.2.3   Service Narrative 70 available points

         3.2.3   Budget 25 available points



                                                                     Request for Proposal 39 of 41
       The following 4 Categories will be reviewed by IDOA

       3.2.4   Buy Indiana Initiative defined in Section 2.7.

       3.2.5   Minority & Women's Business Subcontractor Commitment defined in Section 1.21.

       3.2.6   Indiana Veteran Owned Small Business Subcontractor Commitment Section 1.22.

The Department of Child Services designee will, in the exercise of their sole discretion, determine
which proposal(s) offer the best means of servicing the interests of DCS. The exercise of this
discretion will be final. The department reserves the right to contract with multiple Respondents for
the same services within the same region.




                                                                   Request for Proposal 40 of 41
                                    SECTION FOUR
                                  RFP ATTACHMENTS

           Attachment                                      Description
A   OYS Service Standards         DCS Older Youth Initiatives document describing how
                                  Chafee independent living services are to be administered,
                                  the eligibility requirements and how services are to be
                                  managed.
B   OYS Protocol                  DCS Older Youth Initiatives document providing official
                                  procedure and practice guidance of the DCS older youth
                                  system.
C   Budget Template                    Budget 1 Chafee Independent Living Services
                                       Budget 2 Collaborative Care
                                       Budget 4 Chafee Voluntary Services
                                  There is a budget template for each OYS budget. Complete
                                  each template.
D   Business Narrative            Use template to answer questions. One per proposal
E   Service Narrative             Use template to answer questions. One per proposal
F   Principals of Child Welfare   For your information. A signed application certifies
    Services                      agreement to adhere to the Principals of Child Welfare
                                  Services
G   Assurances                    For your information. A signed application certifies the
                                  Assurances
H   Sample Contract               Sample only of DCS older youth services contract
                                  agreement
I   Exhibit 1                     Certification of completion of required criminal and
                                  background checks
J   Federal Selected Disallowed   For your information. Expenses that are not allowed.
    Expenses
K   Broker of Services            Provider must submit this document of community agencies
    Partnership                   and programs they intend to partner with during the
                                  contract year.
L   NYTD Elements                 For your information A list of NYTD service elements with
                                  definitions and examples of how services can be delivered.
M   OYS Questions Template        Provider must officially submit all question pertaining to the
                                  RFP on this template
N   DCS Youth and placement       For your information. Indiana older youth population data
    data analysis                 including placements
1   Attachment IDOA 1             IDOA Requirement
    Requirement
2   Attachment IDOA 2             Indiana Economic Impact Form
3   Attachment IDOA 3             Minority & Women Business Enterprises
4   Attachment IDOA 4             Veteran Owned Small Business




                                                              Request for Proposal 41 of 41
