                            REQUEST FOR PROPOSALS

                                       FOR

                  BUSINESS LICENSE SOFTWARE SYSTEM

                                 RFP NO. R200807

                      RFP ISSUE DATE: AUGUST 5, 2019

                  PROPOSAL DUE DATE AND TIME:
                OCTOBER 2, 2019, 2:00 P.M. PACIFIC TIME

                                       TO

    FINANCE AND ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES DEPARTMENT,
                   PURCHASING SECTION
                      ATTN: Ann Mehta
                 500 Castro Street, Second Floor
                          P.O. Box 7540
                Mountain View, CA 94039-7540


  POINT OF CONTACT FOR QUESTIONS REGARDING THIS RFP:

                                     Ann Mehta
                               Telephone: 650-903-6324
                            ann.mehta@mountainview.gov




AM/6/ASD/502-08-02-19F010
                                              TABLE OF CONTENTS


I.     INTRODUCTION ............................................................................................................ 1
II.    RFP PROCESS .................................................................................................................. 1
III.   STANDARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS ............................................................... 13
IV.    CONTRACTOR RESPONSIBILITIES ......................................................................... 22
ATTACHMENTS:

ATTACHMENT A—SPECIFICATIONS AND SCOPE OF SERVICES
ATTACHMENT B—PROPOSAL COVER PAGE
ATTACHMENT C—PRICE PROPOSAL
ATTACHMENT D—REFERENCES
ATTACHMENT E—FUNCTIONAL REQUIREMENTS MATRIX
ATTACHMENT F—CITY OF MOUNTAIN VIEW ORDINANCE NO. 17.18




AM/6/ASD/502-08-02-19F010
I.    INTRODUCTION

      The City of Mountain View (City), incorporated in 1902, is a full-service charter
      city with a City Council/City Manager form of government and over 600
      employees representing 12 departments. It is a municipal corporation of the State,
      located in Santa Clara County, California. The City is just over 12 square miles
      with a population of approximately 82,000 and has a General Operating Fund
      budget for Fiscal Year 2019-20 of approximately $136 million.

      A.   PROJECT OVERVIEW

           The City requires a new Business License solution to replace its current
           Business License software from DataNow. The City has passed a new
           ordinance for business licenses that uses employee headcount and other
           parameters to calculate the business tax, which the current system is not
           capable of supporting.

           The City’s new ordinance, 17.18 (Attachment F) takes effect on January 1,
           2020. The system must be operational by January 1, 2020 to accept new
           business license registrations.

      B.   SPECIFICATIONS/SCOPE OF WORK SUMMARY

           This project will require a new business license software, including
           configuration, implementation, and maintenance to support the City of
           Mountain View’s ordinance for business licenses. The detailed requirements
           are identified in Attachment A, Specifications and Scope of Services, and
           Attachment E, Functional Requirements Matrix (Matrix).

      C.   OBJECTIVE

           The objective of this Request for Proposals (RFP) is to make an award to a
           Contractor (selected proposer) who delivers best overall value to the City
           considering the evaluation factors provided herein.

II.   RFP PROCESS

      A.   INVITATION TO RESPOND

           The City is hereby soliciting proposals for a Business License Software System
           in accordance with the terms, conditions, and instructions as set forth in this
           RFP.


AM/6/ASD                                                                City of Mountain View
502-08-02-19F010                          1 of 22     RFP for Business License Software System
     B.    ISSUING OFFICE

           The Finance and Administrative Services Department, Purchasing Section, is
           the issuing office for the City. Proposers who do not notify the City with this
           information when contacting the City assume complete responsibility in the
           event that they do not receive communications prior to the closing date.

     C.    QUESTIONS

           Please e-mail the Point of Contact (POC) Ann Mehta via e-mail at
           ann.mehta@mountainview.gov if there are any questions regarding the RFP
           solicitation and process. Respondents and individuals associated with their
           firm shall not contact City employees, their Contractors, or elected City
           officials outside of the process identified.

           1.      Proposers are responsible for reading carefully and understanding fully
                   the terms and conditions of this RFP. Please e-mail any requests for
                   clarification or additional information to the POC by the date listed in
                   the RFP Schedule. Requests should contain “Questions: MV Business
                   License RFP No. R200807” in the subject line. It is incumbent upon
                   proposers to verify City receipt of their questions.

           2.      All questions will be answered in writing. Both questions and answers
                   will be distributed, without identification, to all proposers who are on
                   record with the City as having received this RFP via an addendum. No
                   oral communications can be relied upon for this RFP.

           3.      To the extent that a question causes a change to any part of this RFP, an
                   addendum will be issued addressing such changes.

     D.    ROLES OF THE CITY’S PURCHASING AGENT AND CONTRACT
           ADMINISTRATOR

           The City’s Purchasing and Support Services Manager (Purchasing Agent) is
           the City’s authorized representative for all matters related to this RFP.
           Throughout the duration of the contract, the Purchasing Agent will be the
           individual with authority to modify any provisions of the contract, including,
           without limitation, the Specifications or Scope of Work, pricing, or any other
           sections in accordance with the applicable terms of the RFP.

           The City’s Contract Administrator or designee shall be the principal interface
           on behalf of the City for post-award technical matters and shall have the
           authority to explain and provide further details regarding the City’s

AM/6/ASD                                                                  City of Mountain View
502-08-02-19F010                             2 of 22    RFP for Business License Software System
           expectations concerning the work to be performed hereunder and/or the
           items to be provided herein.

     E.    PROPOSED SCHEDULE

           The following table outlines the City’s planned schedule of activities related
           to the RFP. All times referenced are in Pacific Time. The City reserves the
           right to amend the schedule as necessary.

           RFP Issued                               August 5, 2019

           Preproposal Conference                   August 27, 2019 at 10:00 a.m.
                                                    Conference Call
           Deadline for Questions, Clarifications   September 3, 2019 by 5:00 p.m.

           City Response/Clarifications             September 18, 2019
           Provided

           Proposals Due                            October 2, 2019 by 2:00 p.m.

           Proposer Interviews or         Product October 10 to 11, 2019
           Demonstration (if required)

           Selection and Negotiation                Week of October 14, 2019

           Contract Awarded                         October 24, 2019

           Project Kick-Off Meeting/                November 4, 2019
           Commencement of Work

           System Go Live                           November 20, 2019

           Project Completion                       January 17, 2020




AM/6/ASD                                                                City of Mountain View
502-08-02-19F010                          3 of 22     RFP for Business License Software System
     F.    PREPROPOSAL CONFERENCE

           A mandatory preproposal conference will be held on August 27, 2019 at
           10:00 a.m. The conference will be held via conference call. Information for
           the call will be provided to proposers who register on the City’s website or
           contact the POC.

           1.      The purpose of the preproposal conference will be to review, in detail,
                   the proposed contract intent, requirements, administration, and other
                   relevant information. Interested proposers are required to attend this
                   preproposal conference.

           2.      Proposers should estimate duration of the preproposal conference to be
                   approximately two (2) hours.

     G.    SUBMISSION OF PROPOSALS

           1.      Proposals must be:

                   a.   Submitted in the format set forth herein.

                   b.   Made in the official name of the firm or individual under which the
                        proposer’s business is conducted (including the official business
                        address).

                   c.   Signed, using the cover page, by a person duly authorized to
                        submit a proposal.

                   d.   Submitted in envelopes clearly marked with the assigned RFP title
                        and closing date/time referenced on the outside of the envelope
                        (lower left corner).

                   e.   Addressed to the POC, as identified in this RFP.

                   f.   Submit one (1) original and three (3) hard copies of the proposal,
                        including all attachments. In addition, one (1) electronic copy of
                        the proposer’s entire presentation is required on a USB flash drive.
                        The electronic copy should be in a format that supports text
                        searches to enable quick access.

           2.      Proposal Format:

                   a.   Section 1—Cover Page, provided in Attachment B.

AM/6/ASD                                                                   City of Mountain View
502-08-02-19F010                             4 of 22     RFP for Business License Software System
                   b.   Section 2—Proposal Summary, including highlights, key features,
                        and distinguishing points of the proposal.

                   c.   Section 3—Firm Profile, including organization structure, financial
                        stability, lawsuits and pending litigation for previous five (5) years,
                        firm capacity, and resources.

                   d.   Section 4—Firm Qualifications, including brief description of
                        similar projects undertaken within the past five (5) years, summary
                        of work performed, total project cost, and time period. Include a
                        brief statement of firm’s adherence to schedule and budget for the
                        referenced project. Identify the Project Manager and the project
                        team. Include their CV with proposal.

                   e.   Section 5—Implementation Work Plan, including staffing and
                        schedule. Provide a well-conceived service plan establishing
                        understanding of City’s requirements and proposer’s ability to
                        satisfy the requirements, schedule, customer service component,
                        and approach in providing the services. Proposer may also suggest
                        technical, procedural innovations, or new concepts that have been
                        used successfully on other engagements and which may provide
                        the City with better service delivery.

                        Include proposed approach to implement Business License
                        Software System. Proposals should outline the following details of
                        proposed operations:

                        •    Implementation Plan and Timeline, including phasing and go-
                             live, business process reviews and tasks, and activities for
                             configuring FootPrints environments for both development
                             and production.

                        •    Key deliverables (and how they relate to the implementation
                             approach and activities).

                        •    Proposed project management services, including role of the
                             project manager, on-site presence, and proposed quality
                             assurance procedures.

                        •    Proposed staff assigned to project with key roles, their
                             qualifications and responsibilities, and approximate


AM/6/ASD                                                                    City of Mountain View
502-08-02-19F010                              5 of 22     RFP for Business License Software System
                             dedication of each resource and approximate time work will
                             be completed on-site versus off-site.

                        •    Overview of proposed testing plan/strategy, specifying how
                             and when testing is to be completed.

                        •    Explain roles and responsibilities the City is expected to
                             provide.

                        •    Provide a sample project plan.

                        •    Include a training program for both system administrators
                             and agents. Describe how on-site training will be provided to
                             staff and if any training will be done remotely.

                   f.   Section 6—Proposal Costs, on form provided, Attachment C.
                        Include the proposed costs to provide the services desired as well
                        as any other cost and price information with a not-to-exceed
                        amount. The hourly rates may be used for pricing the cost of
                        additional services outlined in the Scope of Work. The City does
                        not pay for services before it receives them. Therefore, do not
                        propose contract terms that call for up-front payments or deposits.

                   g.   All travel time, mileage, and per diem shall be included in the
                        submitted proposal price. No additional reimbursements for
                        travel, food, or other expenses shall be made by the City.

                   h.   Section 7—References, minimum of three (3) from projects of
                        similar scope, on form provided, Attachment D.

                   i.   Section 8—Exceptions, on form provided, Attachment D. Discuss
                        any exceptions or requested changes to the RFP requirements and
                        conditions. If no exceptions are noted, it is assumed the proposer
                        will accept all conditions and requirements of the RFP.

                   j.   Section 9—Insurance Certificate, copy of evidence of insurance as
                        requested in RFP Standard Terms and Conditions, Section III,
                        Paragraph L on Page 15.

                   k.   Section 10—Copy of any agreements that City would be required to
                        sign, including any applicable maintenance and support
                        agreements.


AM/6/ASD                                                                  City of Mountain View
502-08-02-19F010                            6 of 22     RFP for Business License Software System
     H.    CLOSING DATE

           Proposals must arrive at the location, date, and time identified on the Cover
           Page of this RFP in the format set forth herein. There will be no public
           opening of the proposals. The names of proposers will not be released until
           announcement of award.

     I.    LATE SUBMISSIONS

           If mailing proposals, please allow sufficient mail delivery time to ensure
           timely receipt by the issuing office. Delivery of the proposal to the specified
           location by the prescribed time and date is the sole responsibility of
           proposers. Any proposal, modifications to proposals, request for withdrawal
           of proposals, or Best and Final Offers (BAFO) arriving after the closing date
           and time are late and will not be considered unless the Purchasing Agent
           determines that accepting the late proposal would not unduly delay the
           acquisition, and:

           1.      If it was transmitted through an electronic commerce method authorized
                   by the solicitation, it was received at the initial point of entry to the
                   City’s infrastructure not later than the specified time; or

           2.      There is acceptable evidence to establish that it was received at the City
                   location designated for receipt of proposals and was under the City’s
                   control prior to the time set for receipt of proposals; or

           3.      It was the only proposal received.

     J.    ECONOMY OF PREPARATION

           Proposers will prepare each proposal simply and economically, providing a
           straightforward, concise description of the proposers’ offer and capabilities to
           satisfy the requirements of this RFP. Emphasis should be on completeness
           and clarity of content.

     K.    FIRM PRICES

           All quotes will be held firm for a minimum of sixty (60) days after the
           proposal due date listed above to allow adequate time for the City to consider
           each proposal and make an award. All blanks for unit price and total price
           shall be completed. Any discrepancy between the unit price and the
           extended or total price shall be determined by taking the lower price. Upon
           receipt of this proposal by the City, the Contractor shall be presumed to be

AM/6/ASD                                                                   City of Mountain View
502-08-02-19F010                             7 of 22     RFP for Business License Software System
           thoroughly familiar with all the aspects of this proposal, including
           installation sites and all specifications and requirements of this proposal. The
           failure or omission to examine any location, equipment, form, instrument, or
           document shall in no way relieve Contractor from any obligation in respect to
           this RFP. After award, pricing shall be held firm through the duration of the
           agreement.

     L.    PROPRIETARY/CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION

           Any information submitted with a proposal is a public record subject to
           disclosure unless a specific exemption applies. If a proposer submits
           information clearly marked proprietary or confidential, it will be treated with
           the confidentiality to the extent permitted by law. However, it is the
           proposer’s obligation and expense to defend any legal challenges seeking to
           obtain said information. The City will incur no liability due to release of
           information from a proposer labeled “proprietary” or “confidential.”

     M.    PROPOSAL MATERIAL OWNERSHIP

           All material submitted regarding and in response to this RFP becomes the
           property of the City and will only be returned to the proposer at the City’s
           option. Any person may request and review proposals submitted after final
           award has been made. The City has the right to use any or all information
           presented in reply to this request, subject to limitations outlined above in
           “Proprietary/Confidential Information.” Disqualification of a proposer does
           not eliminate this right.

     N.    MULTIPLE/ALTERNATIVE PROPOSALS

           Proposers may submit more than one (1) proposal to reflect alternative
           business solutions, software packages, or hardware platforms. However,
           only one (1) proposal should be identified as the proposer’s “Primary
           Proposal” and all others should be identified as “Alternative Proposal.” To
           facilitate evaluation, all proposals submitted must follow the format listed
           herein. Alternative approaches will be given consideration if the approach
           clearly offers increased benefits to the City.

     O.    ACCEPTABILITY OF PROPOSALS

           The Purchasing Agent will determine which proposers have met the
           requirements of the RFP. Failure to comply with any mandatory requirement
           will disqualify a proposal. The Purchasing Agent will have the sole authority
           to determine whether any deviation from the requirements of this RFP is

AM/6/ASD                                                                City of Mountain View
502-08-02-19F010                          8 of 22     RFP for Business License Software System
           substantial in nature. The Purchasing Agent may waive or permit to be cured
           minor irregularities or minor informalities in proposals that are immaterial or
           inconsequential in nature, whenever it is determined to be in the City’s best
           interest.

           The City may accept other than the lowest-priced offer. The City may
           conduct discussions with proposers in any manner deemed necessary to best
           serve the interests of the City. The Purchasing Agent may limit the
           competitive range to firms highly rated technically and whose prices are
           considered to be reasonable by the City for purposes of efficiency. The
           Purchasing Agent may reject in whole or in part any and all proposals if such
           is in the City’s interest.

           Upon award, the contents of the response of the successful proposal will
           become contractual obligations. Failure of the proposer to accept these
           obligations in a subsequent purchase agreement, purchase order, or contract
           may result in cancellation of further negotiations.

     P.    CLARIFICATIONS

           The City reserves the right to obtain clarification of any point in a proposer’s
           submittal or to obtain additional information necessary to properly evaluate a
           particular response. Failure of a proposer to respond to such a request for
           additional information or clarification may result in rejection of the
           proposer’s proposal.

     Q.    PROPOSAL EVALUATION AND SELECTION

           The City will evaluate proposals and may select one (1) Contractor or
           multiple Contractors to provide the requested services. The contract award
           will be made to the responsible Contractor(s) whose proposal(s) is (are)
           determined to provide the overall best value to the City, considering the
           evaluation criteria, including price. The various qualitative and quantitative
           criteria that will be used by the evaluation committee to review and rate
           proposals includes, but is not limited to, the following:

           1.      General requirements, quality, and completeness of response.

           2.      Work plan or technical requirements.

           3.      Qualifications and experience, including past performance, litigation,
                   references, customer service.


AM/6/ASD                                                                    City of Mountain View
502-08-02-19F010                            9 of 22       RFP for Business License Software System
           4.      Implementation approach.

           5.      Adherence to the requirements of the RFP.

           6.      Proposed timeline.

           7.      Warranty of hardware.

           8.      Support and maintenance offered.

           9.      Total cost.

           10.     Product demonstration.

           11.     Any other factors as solely determined by the City to be in the City’s
                   best interest.

           The City’s evaluation team may request site visits for the purpose of
           evaluating proposal solutions at an installed location. The City’s evaluation
           team may request additional technical assistance from any source.

     R.    ORAL PRESENTATIONS AND SITE VISITS

           Proposers should be prepared to discuss and substantiate any of the areas of
           the proposal submitted, as well as its qualifications to furnish the specified
           product and/or services. Please be advised that there is the possibility for a
           request of an interview, demonstration, presentation, or site visit to other
           comparable operations. However, the proposer shall not rely on the
           possibility of such a request and must submit a complete and comprehensive
           written response to this RFP. The City will not be charged any fees associated
           with the proposer’s cost to give requested presentations, demonstrations, or
           conducting of site visits.

           Proposers will be required to perform a presentation and product
           demonstration which can be done on-site or remotely via Webex or other
           remote presentation software, to include the following items:

           1.      Presentation on company should include:

                   •    Company background

                   •    Implementation experience


AM/6/ASD                                                                 City of Mountain View
502-08-02-19F010                            10 of 22   RFP for Business License Software System
                   •   Number of employees dedicated to support

                   •   Description of implementation methodology

           2.      Summary of proposed services for implementing based on the City’s
                   requirements as stated in the RFP, including:

                   •   Project management

                   •   Strategic planning sessions and workshops

                   •   Training

                   •   “Go live” support

           3.      Product Demonstration:

                   •   In-person or web-based demonstration of the                proposer’s
                       application supporting business license functionality.

     S.    NEGOTIATIONS

           The City may accept the proposal which it determines to serve the best
           interest of the City, as submitted, without discussion or negotiation.
           Proposers should, therefore, not rely on the ability or opportunity to discuss,
           negotiate, and/or adjust their proposal. The Purchasing Agent may advise
           proposers selected as finalists to submit a Best and Final Offer (BAFO) for
           consideration.

     T.    EVIDENCE OF RESPONSIBILITY

           Prior to the award of a contract pursuant to this RFP, the City may require the
           proposer to submit such additional information bearing upon the proposer’s
           ability to perform the contract as the City deems appropriate. The City may
           also consider any information otherwise available, but not limited to price,
           technical, and qualifications relative to ability, capacity, integrity, ethics,
           performance record, and experience of the proposer.




AM/6/ASD                                                                 City of Mountain View
502-08-02-19F010                            11 of 22   RFP for Business License Software System
     U.    SUBMITTALS REQUIRED UPON PROVISIONAL AWARD

           Failure to provide the required submittals upon provisional award, within
           the time period specified, may be cause for the provisional award to be
           voided and the proposal to be rejected as nonresponsive.

           1.      Insurance requirements as specified in Section III, Paragraph L.

           2.      City of Mountain View Business License, per Section III, Paragraph S.

           3.      Completed IRS Form (W-9), if not currently on file.

     V.    INCURRED EXPENSES

           The City will not be responsible for any expenses incurred by proposers in
           preparing and submitting a proposal to this RFP, or associated actions (e.g.,
           attendance to preproposal conference, interviews, demonstrations,
           presentations, etc.).

     W.    CITY’S RIGHTS

           The City reserves the right to cancel this RFP, in whole or in part, or reject any
           or all proposals submitted in response to this RFP when such action is
           determined to be in the best interest to the City as determined solely by the
           City. The City also reserves the unilateral right to award a contract in whole
           or in part; to award a contract to one (1) or more proposers; to waive or
           permit cure of minor irregularities; and to conduct discussions with
           proposers in any manner necessary.

     X.    NEWS RELEASES/ADVERTISING

           News releases and/or advertising pertaining to this procurement or any part
           of the subject shall not be made without prior written approval of the City.

     Y.    CONFIDENTIALITY—CITY INFORMATION

           Contractor shall instruct its employees and the employees of any
           subcontractors to keep as confidential information concerning the business of
           the City, its financial affairs, its relations with its citizens, and its employees,
           as well as any other information which may be specifically classified as
           confidential by the City.




AM/6/ASD                                                                   City of Mountain View
502-08-02-19F010                            12 of 22     RFP for Business License Software System
III. STANDARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS

     The City’s standard terms and conditions will be included in any final agreement.
     These terms do not represent the complete terms of a potential agreement that
     might be negotiated with a Contractor selected to proceed to that phase of the
     project; however, terms and conditions that would be included, but not limited to,
     such an agreement, are as follows:

     A.    PAYMENT TERMS

           The City’s payment terms are, at a minimum, net thirty (30) days after
           acceptance of service or delivery of goods and receipt of an accurate invoice,
           whichever occurs later. The Contractor’s invoice must match the unit prices
           listed in the Purchase Order (PO) and must include the City-authorized PO
           number. Proposers may offer discounted payment terms, and those should
           be listed on the proposer’s response which the City may accept at its
           discretion.

     B.    TIME OF DELIVERY/COMPLETION

           Time is of the essence. The Contractor shall deliver all goods or complete all
           services called for under this RFP within the number of working/calendar
           days or by the date specified for completion in this RFP, unless the delays are
           caused by the City or by acts of God. Failure to deliver on time shall be
           grounds for termination.

     C.    FREIGHT AND TAX

           Prices quoted shall include all freight costs and ownership transfers to the
           City at the City’s location and are freight on board (F.O.B.) destination to the
           designated locations. Freight shall be prepaid and added to the invoice with
           ownership transferring to the City when delivery is completed to the City’s
           location. Freight or shipping charges (separate from handling) as well as
           California sales or use tax, if applicable, must be shown on the invoice as a
           separate line item.

     D.    FIRM PRICES

           All proposed prices will be held firm for a minimum of sixty (60) days after
           the proposal due date listed above to allow adequate time for the City to
           consider each proposal and make an award. Any discrepancy between the
           unit price and the extended or total price will be determined by taking the
           lower price. Upon receipt of the proposal by the City, the Contractor will be

AM/6/ASD                                                                City of Mountain View
502-08-02-19F010                          13 of 22    RFP for Business License Software System
           presumed to be thoroughly familiar with all aspects of this RFP, including
           sites, specifications, and all requirements of this RFP. The failure or omission
           to examine any location, equipment, form, instrument, or document will in no
           way relieve Contractor from any obligation with respect to this RFP. After
           award, pricing shall be held firm through the duration of the agreement.

     E.    INSPECTION; ACCEPTANCE OF GOODS AND SERVICES

           All goods and services are subject to final inspection and acceptance by City.
           City may reject any goods and services which are not in accordance with the
           City-authorized PO. Acceptance of all goods and services shall occur only
           after City has had a reasonable time for inspection following delivery of
           goods or completion of services.

     F.    OWNERSHIP       AND     COLLUSION/FINANCIAL             INTEREST       BY    CITY
           EMPLOYEES

           The Contractor confirms, by signing the proposal, that he/she has not,
           directly or indirectly, been collusive with any other Contractor or anyone else
           interested in this RFP. Pursuant to Section 706 of the City of Mountain View
           Charter, no City officer or employee shall have a financial interest, either
           directly or indirectly, in any contract, sale, purchase, or lease to which the
           City is a party.

     G.    ASSIGNMENT

           This Agreement, nor any part of this Agreement, may be assigned without
           the written consent of the City.

     H.    TERMINATION

           Any PO issued as a result of this RFP may be terminated by the City at any
           time with ten (10) days’ written notice to Contractor. The City will only pay
           for any goods or services ordered and accepted by the City. Any payments
           made in advance will be returned to the City on a prorated basis. In no event
           shall said fees exceed the maximum compensation established in the PO.

     I.    APPROPRIATION OF FUNDS

           Any PO issued as a result of this RFP may be terminated every June 30 based
           upon the City Council not funding the purchase of goods or services to be
           provided in this RFP after each July 1.


AM/6/ASD                                                                City of Mountain View
502-08-02-19F010                          14 of 22    RFP for Business License Software System
     J.    NONDISCRIMINATION

           Contractor will afford equal employment opportunities for all persons
           without discrimination because of race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation,
           political affiliation, national origin, ancestry, age, marital status, physical or
           mental disability, military or veteran status, gender identity or expression, or
           genetic information.

     K.    APPLICABLE LAWS AND ATTORNEYS’ FEES

           This Agreement will be construed and enforced pursuant to the laws of the
           State of California. Should any legal action be brought by a party for breach
           of this Agreement or to enforce any provision herein, the prevailing party of
           such action shall be entitled to reasonable attorneys’ fees, court costs, and
           such other costs as may be fixed by the court. Reasonable attorneys’ fees of
           the City Attorney’s Office, if private counsel is not used, shall be based on
           comparable fees of private attorneys practicing in Santa Clara County.

     L.    INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS

           1.      Commercial General Liability Insurance. Contractor shall obtain and
                   maintain Commercial General Liability insurance in a minimum amount
                   of Two Million Dollars ($2,000,000) per occurrence. If a general
                   aggregate limit is used, either the general aggregate limit shall apply
                   separately to this Agreement or the general aggregate limit shall be
                   twice the required occurrence limit. Contractor’s insurance coverage
                   shall be written on an occurrence basis.

           2.      Automobile Liability Insurance. Contractor shall obtain and maintain
                   Automobile Liability insurance in a minimum amount of One Million
                   Dollars ($1,000,000) per occurrence.

           3.      Workers’ Compensation Insurance.

                   ☒   Required       ☐    Not Required

                   If required, Contractor shall obtain and maintain statutory Workers’
                   Compensation insurance and Employer’s Liability insurance in a
                   minimum amount of One Million Dollars ($1,000,000) per accident.




AM/6/ASD                                                                  City of Mountain View
502-08-02-19F010                           15 of 22     RFP for Business License Software System
                   Or

                   ☐    Required       ☒    Not Required

                   If not required, Contractor is an individual or a company that has
                   entered, or will be entering, into an agreement with City to provide
                   goods or services.

                   Contractor is familiar with the Workers’ Compensation laws of
                   California (generally contained in Section 3700 of the Labor Code),
                   including those provisions which provide for specific exemptions from
                   the requirement that all employers must carry Workers’ Compensation
                   insurance, and Contractor maintains they are exempted under the law
                   from the requirement to maintain Workers’ Compensation insurance
                   coverage.

                   In addition, during the term of any work for City under said Agreement:
                   (1) Contractor will not employ any person in any manner so as to
                   become subject to the Workers’ Compensation laws of California; or (2)
                   should Contractor become subject to the Workers’ Compensation
                   provisions of Section 3700 of the Labor Code for any reason, Contractor
                   shall forthwith comply with those provisions and send evidence of
                   financial compliance to City.

           4.      Technology Professional Liability or Errors and Omissions Insurance.

                   Contractor shall obtain and maintain Technology Professional Liability
                   or Errors and Omissions Liability insurance in a minimum amount of
                   Two Million Dollars ($2,000,000) per occurrence or claim.

                   Coverage shall be sufficiently broad to respond to the duties and
                   obligations as are undertaken by Contractor in this Agreement and shall
                   include, but not be limited to, claims involving infringement of
                   intellectual property, including, but not limited to, infringement of
                   copyright, trademark, trade dress, invasion of privacy violations,
                   information theft, damage to or destruction of electronic information,
                   release of private information, alteration of electronic information,
                   extortion, and network security. The policy shall provide coverage for
                   breach response costs as well as regulatory fines and penalties and credit
                   monitoring expenses with limits sufficient to respond to these
                   obligations. Technology Professional Liability or Errors and Omissions
                   insurance must be maintained, and evidence of insurance shall be


AM/6/ASD                                                                   City of Mountain View
502-08-02-19F010                             16 of 22    RFP for Business License Software System
                   provided to CITY for at least five (5) years after completion of work
                   under this Agreement.

           5.      Cyber Liability Insurance.

                   Contractor shall obtain and maintain Cyber Liability insurance in a
                   minimum amount of Two Million Dollars ($2,000,000) per occurrence or
                   claim, Two Million Dollars ($2,000,000) aggregate.

                   Coverage shall be sufficiently broad to respond to the duties and
                   obligations as is undertaken by Contractor in this Agreement and shall
                   include, but not be limited to, claims involving infringement of
                   intellectual property, including, but not limited to, infringement of
                   copyright, trademark, trade dress, invasion of privacy violations,
                   information theft, damage to or destruction of electronic information,
                   release of private information, alteration of electronic information,
                   extortion, and network security. The policy shall provide coverage for
                   breach response costs as well as regulatory fines and penalties and credit
                   monitoring expenses with limits sufficient to respond to these
                   obligations.    Cyber Liability insurance must be maintained, and
                   evidence of insurance shall be provided to CITY for at least five (5) years
                   after completion of work under this Agreement.

           6.      Acceptability of Insurers. Insurance is to be placed with insurers with a
                   current A.M. Best’s Rating of A:VII unless otherwise acceptable to City.

           7.      Verification of Coverage. Insurance, deductibles, or self-insurance
                   retentions shall be subject to City’s approval. Original Certificates of
                   Insurance with endorsements shall be received and approved by City
                   before work commences, and insurance must be in effect for the
                   duration of the Agreement. The absence of insurance or a reduction of
                   stated limits shall cause all work on the project to cease. Any delays
                   shall not increase costs to City or increase the duration of the project.

           8.      Other Insurance Provisions.

                   a.   If Contractor maintains broader coverage and/or higher limits than
                        the minimums shown above, City requires and shall be entitled to
                        the broader coverage and/or the higher limits maintained by
                        Contractor. Any available insurance proceeds in excess of the
                        specified minimum limits of insurance and coverage shall be
                        available to City.


AM/6/ASD                                                                   City of Mountain View
502-08-02-19F010                             17 of 22    RFP for Business License Software System
                   b.   The City of Mountain View, its officers, officials, employees, and
                        volunteers are to be covered as an additional insured by an
                        endorsement at least as broad as ISO Form CG 20 10 11 85 or, if not
                        available, through the addition of both CG 20 10, CG 2026, CG 20
                        33, or CG 20 38 and CG 20 37 if a later revision is used or other
                        endorsement approved by City’s Risk Manager for Commercial
                        General and Automobile Liability coverage.

                   c.   For any claims related to Contractor’s services pursuant to this
                        Agreement, Contractor’s insurance coverage shall be primary
                        coverage at least as broad as ISO CG 20 01 04 13 with respect to
                        City, its officers, officials, employees, and volunteers.          Any
                        insurance or self-insurance maintained by City, its officers, officials,
                        employees, and volunteers shall not contribute to it.

                   d.   Contractor grants City a waiver of any rights to subrogation which
                        any insurer of Contractor may acquire against City by virtue of the
                        payment of any loss under such insurance (ISO CG 24 04 for CGL)
                        and an endorsement to the Workers’ Compensation policy. This
                        provision applies regardless of whether or not City has received a
                        waiver of subrogation endorsement from the insurer.

                   e.   Contractor shall provide thirty (30) days’ notice to City in the event
                        of cancellation or modification to the stipulated insurance coverage.

                   f.   In the event Contractor employs subcontractors as part of the work
                        covered by this Agreement, it shall be the responsibility of
                        Contractor to ensure that all subcontractors comply with the same
                        insurance requirements as stated in this Agreement.

                   g.   Approval of the insurance by City or acceptance of the Certificate
                        of Insurance by City shall not relieve or decrease the extent to
                        which Contractor may be held responsible for payment of damages
                        resulting from Contractor’s services or operations pursuant to this
                        Agreement, nor shall it be deemed a waiver of City’s rights to
                        insurance coverage hereunder.

                   h.   If, for any reason, Contractor fails to maintain insurance coverage
                        that is required pursuant to this Agreement, the same shall be
                        deemed a material breach of Agreement. City, at its sole option,
                        may terminate this Agreement and obtain damages from
                        Contractor resulting from said breach. Alternately, City may
                        purchase such required insurance coverage, and without further

AM/6/ASD                                                                    City of Mountain View
502-08-02-19F010                             18 of 22     RFP for Business License Software System
                     notice to Contractor, City may deduct from sums due to Contractor
                     any premium costs advanced by City for such insurance.

     M.    HOLD HARMLESS

           To the fullest extent permitted by law, Contractor shall defend, indemnify,
           and hold City, its officers, employees, agents, and volunteers, harmless from
           any liability for damage or claims of same, including, but not limited to,
           personal injury, property damage, and death, which may arise from
           Contractor or Contractor’s contractors, subcontractors, agents, or employees’
           operations under this Agreement. City shall cooperate reasonably in the
           defense of any action, and Contractor shall employ competent counsel,
           reasonably acceptable to the City Attorney.

     N.    WARRANTY

           The delivered or installed goods, equipment, or services shall be warranted to
           be free from defects in material and workmanship. The warranty period shall
           begin upon acceptance by the City. As a minimum, all goods, equipment,
           and services shall be warranted to operate satisfactorily in accordance with
           the requirements of these specifications, representations of the Contractor,
           and the published specifications of the manufacturer(s) for a period of at least
           one (1) year. Any defective goods, equipment, or services shall be replaced or
           repaired quickly at the City’s location during the warranty period at no
           expense to the City. If repairs cannot be made at the City’s location,
           Contractor shall transport/ship the equipment to a repair facility. All repairs
           must be completed and the equipment returned to the City within seventy-
           two (72) hours of a call for service. If the Contractor fails to have the
           equipment repaired within seventy-two (72) hours, the Contractor shall
           provide an equal “loaner” piece of equipment until the City’s equipment is
           returned in operating condition.

     O.    SDS

           General Industrial Safety Order 5194 requires Safety Data Sheets (SDS) be
           supplied, for all applicable items, with the initial delivery.

     P.    RELIANCE UPON PROFESSIONAL SKILL

           It is mutually agreed by the parties that City is relying upon the professional
           skill of Contractor, and Contractor represents to City that its work shall
           conform to generally recognized professional standards in the industry.


AM/6/ASD                                                                City of Mountain View
502-08-02-19F010                          19 of 22    RFP for Business License Software System
           Acceptance of Contractor’s work by City does not operate as a release of
           Contractor’s said representation.

     Q.    INDEPENDENT CONTRACTOR

           It is agreed that Contractor is an independent contractor and all persons
           working for or under the direction of Contractor are Contractor’s agents and
           employees, and said persons shall not be deemed agents or employees of
           City.

     R.    SUBCONTRACTORS

           The City prefers a proposal with a single or primary Contractor. If you
           propose a multi-Contractor or subcontracted approach, clearly identify the
           responsibilities of each party and the assurances of performance you offer.
           The Contractor is the prime contractor and is solely responsible for all of the
           Contractor’s subcontractors.

     S.    BUSINESS LICENSE

           For any work done within the City of Mountain View, Contractor shall
           obtain, prior to issuance of a Purchase Order, and maintain a valid business
           license from City. Business license applications are available online at
           http://mountainview.gov/depts/fasd/forms.asp or at City Hall, 500 Castro
           Street, Second Floor, Finance Lobby.

     T.    ATTACHMENTS OR EXHIBITS

           Except as expressly referenced herein, no portion of any terms or conditions
           included in any attachments or exhibits shall be a part of this Agreement, and
           they shall have no force or effect. If the attachments or exhibits to this
           Agreement, if any, are inconsistent with this Agreement, this Agreement shall
           control.

     U.    WAIVER

           The failure of City to insist upon a strict performance of any of the terms,
           conditions, and covenants contained herein shall not be deemed a waiver of
           any rights or remedies that City may have and shall not be deemed a waiver
           of any subsequent breach or default in the terms, conditions, and covenants
           contained herein.




AM/6/ASD                                                                City of Mountain View
502-08-02-19F010                          20 of 22    RFP for Business License Software System
     V.    HEADINGS

           The headings in this Agreement are inserted for convenience purposes only
           and shall not affect the terms of this Agreement.

     W.    PUBLIC RECORDS

           The parties recognize and acknowledge that City is subject to the California
           Public Records Act, California Government Code Section 6250 and following.
           Public records are subject to disclosure.

     X.    SEVERABILITY

           If any provision of this Agreement is found by a court of competent
           jurisdiction to be void, invalid, or unenforceable, the same will either be
           reformed to comply with applicable law or stricken if not so conformable, so
           as not to affect the validity or enforceability of this Agreement.

     Y.    NOTICES

           Any notice given under this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be given
           by delivering the same to such party in person, by delivering the same to
           such party by reputable overnight courier or express service, or by sending
           the same to such party by registered or certified mail, return receipt
           requested, with postage prepaid. The address(es) of each party for the giving
           of notices hereunder are, until changed as hereinafter provided, the
           following:

           To City:       Purchasing and Support Services Manager
                          City of Mountain View
                          500 Castro Street
                          P.O. Box 7540
                          Mountain View, CA 94039-7540

           To Vendor:     Proposer’s Address listed on Proposal Cover Sheet,
                          Attachment B

           Any notice will be deemed given on the date of delivery, on the date of
           refusal to accept delivery, or when delivery is first attempted but cannot be
           made due to a change of address for which no notice was given. A party may
           change its notice address(es) at any time by giving written notice of such
           change to the other party in the manner provided herein. Notice given by
           counsel shall be deemed given by the party represented by such counsel.

AM/6/ASD                                                               City of Mountain View
502-08-02-19F010                         21 of 22    RFP for Business License Software System
     Z.    AUTHORITY TO EXECUTE

           The persons executing this Agreement on behalf of the parties warrant that
           they are duly authorized to execute this Agreement.

     AA. ENTIRE AGREEMENT

           This Agreement contains the entire understanding between the parties with
           respect to the subject matter herein.           There are no representations,
           agreements, or understandings (whether oral or written) between or among
           the parties relating to the subject matter of this Agreement which are not fully
           expressed herein.

     BB. CHANGE ORDER

           Contractor will secure prior approval from the City’s Designated Project
           Manager and Purchasing Division for any change orders which may impact
           project price and schedule. The Contractor agrees to waive his/her rights of
           any claim if any out-of-scope work is carried out without an approved change
           order signed by the City’s Designated Project Manager. If the City initiates a
           change order, a detailed cost breakdown proposal shall be submitted by
           Contractor within seven (7) calendar days for City’s approval. Contractor
           shall verify all code requirements and include these requirements in the total
           price. The changes, if any, caused by Building Code requirements will not
           qualify for a cost change order.

IV. CONTRACTOR RESPONSIBILITIES

     A.    The City assumes no responsibility for loss of or damage to materials or
           equipment owned or operated by the Contractor, his/her agents, or
           employees. All work damaged due to vandalism or any other cause prior to
           acceptance of the work by the City shall be repaired or replaced by the
           Contractor at the Contractor’s own expense.

     B.    The Contractor shall comply with all applicable State and local laws,
           ordinances, codes, and regulations.         All safety orders, rules, and
           recommendations of the Division of Industrial Relations of the State of
           California and OSHA, applicable to all the work performed under this
           contract, shall be obeyed and enforced by the Contractor.

     C.    The regular working hours are between 7:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. from Monday
           to Friday. Work on weekends may be allowed with prior approval.

AM/6/ASD                                                                City of Mountain View
502-08-02-19F010                          22 of 22    RFP for Business License Software System
ATTACHMENTS
           ATTACHMENT A—SPECIFICATIONS AND SCOPE OF WORK

The selected Contractor shall provide Business License Software system, including
implementation and maintenance support in accordance with the requirements listed
herein. For detailed requirements, see Functional Requirements Matrix (Matrix),
Attachment E. The system must support the City’s business license tax calculation
rules as defined in Mountain View Ordinance 17.18., Attachment F.

The Matrix identifies all functionality desired by the City.

Proposers must respond to each of the requirements for the applications being
proposed with one of the following response codes:

            Meets requirement with current version of software with no customization
     Y
            required
   N        Does not meet requirement
   F        Planned for future release
  W/C       Workaround proposed or customization needed to meet requirement
   T        Third-party solution to meet requirement

Response Codes “Y” and “N” do not require written responses unless the proposers
wish to present additional benefits or opportunities related to their solution and the
requirement. However, response codes “F”, “W/C,” and “T” do require written
responses. For these response codes, proposers must describe how the requirement will
be met and when. Proposers must also provide a statement assuring any customization
will be completed by the associated phase go-live and any associated cost (one-time and
ongoing) in the Price Proposal. Any third-party solution must include information
regarding how and by whom the installation and interface will be completed.




AM/6/ASD                                                                 City of Mountain View
502-08-02-19F010                           1 of 1      RFP for Business License Software System
           ATTACHMENT B—COVER PAGE: PROPOSER’S INFORMATION
               (Please include this as part of your proposal submittal.)


PROPOSER

Company:                                 Name:
                                                                       [PRINT OR TYPE]
Federal Tax I.D. No.
                                         Signature*
Street Address:
                                         Title
City:
                                         Date
State:                 Zip Code:
                                         * Authorized Signature: The signer declares under penalty of
Tel. No.                  Fax No.          perjury that she/he is authorized to sign this document and bind
E-Mail                                     the company or organization to the terms of this agreement. The
                                           signer further understands and agrees that the conditions set
                                           forth in the instructions to vendors, the terms and conditions
                                           and the specifications, together with the RFP, its attachments
                                           and amendments, proposal, and any other documents submitted
                                           in response to the foregoing, shall form a part of and be
                                           construed with the PO.




 ADDENDA

 To assure that all proposers have received each addendum, check the appropriate
 box(es) below. Failure to acknowledge receipt of addendum/addenda may be
 considered an irregularity in the proposal:

 Addendum number(s) received: ☐ 1       ☐ 2        ☐ 3

 Or, ☐ No addendum/addenda were received




 AM/6/ASD                                                               City of Mountain View
 502-08-02-19F010                      1 of 1         RFP for Business License Software System
                       ATTACHMENT C—PRICE PROPOSAL


On-Premise Solution:

For systems that are installed on-premise and run on City hardware systems:

1.   Site/server license

2.   License cost per named user with full access

3.   License cost per concurrent user with full access

4.   License cost per named user with read-only access

5.   License cost per concurrent user with read-only access

6.   Annual maintenance fee

Hosted Solutions:

For systems that are hosted/cloud-based:

1.   Annual site license

2.   License cost per named user with full access

3.   License cost per concurrent user with full access

4.   License cost per named user with read-only access

5.   License cost per concurrent user with read-only access

If there are one-time installation, configuration, or data loading charges for the
system, costs must be identified on the Price Proposal.




AM/6/ASD                                                               City of Mountain View
502-08-02-19F010                           1 of 1    RFP for Business License Software System
      ATTACHMENT D—REFERENCES, SUBCONTRACTORS, EXCEPTIONS

Please provide a minimum of three (3) references where work of a similar size and
nature was performed within the past five (5) years.

I.   References:

The proposer is required to provide a minimum of three (3) references where work of a
similar size and nature was performed within the last three (3) years. This will enable
the City of Mountain View to judge the responsibility, experience, skill, and business
standing of the proposer.

Client Name:                             Contact Name:
Address:                                 Phone Number:
                                         Fax Number:
                                         E-mail:
Date of Project (when was work performed):
Describe what product or service was provided:




Client Name:                             Contact Name:
Address:                                 Phone Number:
                                         Fax Number:
                                         E-mail:
Date of Project (when was work performed):
Describe what product or service was provided:




AM/6/ASD                                                              City of Mountain View
502-08-02-19F010                         1 of 2     RFP for Business License Software System
Client Name:                             Contact Name:
Address:                                 Phone Number:
                                         Fax Number:
                                         E-mail:
Date of Project (when was work performed):
Describe what product or service was provided:




II.   Subcontractors:   List any subcontractors that will be performing any of the
      services.

           Work to be Performed                   Subcontractor’s Name and Address

1.


2.



III. Exceptions or Clarifications: If you have any exceptions or clarifications to this
     RFP, please state them here.




AM/6/ASD                                                               City of Mountain View
502-08-02-19F010                         2 of 2      RFP for Business License Software System
                                                 CMV RFP No. 200807                                        Attachment E
                                            Business License Software System

City of Mountain View
Business License Tax Requirements Matrix

                                                                                        Response
  Section        Detail   Req. #                    Requirement                                    Response/Comments
                                                                                          Code
User Interface              1      Provides a browser-based user interface

                                   Supports mobile technologies (e.g. smartphones,
User Interface              2
                                   tablets) including Android and iOS
                                   Provides the ability to drill-down and drill-
User Interface              3      across from a transaction view to the supporting
                                   source data and documents
                                   Provides fully integrated functionality such that
                                   data is entered only one-time and available
User Interface              4      throughout the system and available in real-time
                                   (single-points of data entry) in all related
                                   modules
                                   Provides organized screen layouts that are
User Interface              5
                                   customizable
                                   Provides consistent use of icons, colors and
User Interface              6
                                   menus across all modules
                                   Provides shortcuts for frequently accessed
User Interface              7
                                   processes, screens, reports, etc.
                                   Provides open ended search capabilities (e.g.
User Interface              8      partial/full word and/or number) that search
                                   across all modules and attachments
                                   Provides online help that is context sensitive and
User Interface              9      content appropriate with manuals also available
                                   for download
                                         CMV RFP No. 200807
                                    Business License Software System

                           Provides integrated workflow management
                           including generation, routing, notification and
                           approval of forms, reports, other documents and
Workflow              10   processes (e.g. payable processing, purchase
                           orders, GL transactions, HR transactions, payroll
                           processing, budgeting, personnel action forms,
                           etc.) for all modules
                           Provides ability to establish multiple approval
                           levels based on user-defined criteria (e.g. dollar
Workflow              11
                           amounts, types of items purchased, document
                           types, etc.)
                           Provides support to allow out of office approval
Workflow              12
                           delegation
                           Provides the ability for workflow not approved
                      13   in a defined period of time to move to another
                           approver
                           Provides multiple attributes to define which
                           users participate in which steps of the workflow
Workflow              14   processes (e.g. GL number segments, unique
                           groupings, project/task codes, object/spend
                           category codes, consideration of roles, etc.)
                           Integrates with the email system to assist in the
                           notification/request of approvals, reject,
Workflow              15
                           corrections, and approval through/from email
                           and mobile devices
                           Allows document attachment to be available for
Workflow              16
                           review through all workflow approval levels
                           Provides fields for notes and/or comments from
Workflow              17
                           approvers with date/time stamps
Reporting
                           Provides a reporting toolset that is consistent
   and      General   18
                           across all modules
Dashboard
                                             CMV RFP No. 200807
                                        Business License Software System
                               Provides modeling tools to do ‘what if’ analysis
Reporting and                  and forecasting (i.e. analysis of
                General   19
 Dashboard                     revenue/expenditure trends and the ability to
                               develop forecast projections)
Reporting and                  Provides real-time access to data and data is
                General   20
 Dashboard                     immediately available for inquiry and reporting

Reporting and                  Allows users to drilldown from reports and
                General   21
 Dashboard                     inquiries to source transaction and attachments
                               Provides full integration with MS Excel for all
                               modules (e.g. worksheet export to Excel, data
Reporting and
                General   22   imported from Excel, etc.) and allows users to
 Dashboard
                               export reports to Excel that include
                               formulas/formatting
Reporting and                  Provides the ability to copy and customize
                General   23
 Dashboard                     standard reports

Reporting and                  Provides the ability for reports to access data
                General   24
 Dashboard                     across all modules
                               Provides the ability to create report notification
Reporting and
                General   25   groups and inform/alert groups a new report is
 Dashboard
                               available
                               Provides the ability to choose a format when
Reporting and
                General   26   exporting a report (e.g. Excel, Adobe, flat file,
 Dashboard
                               delimited, etc.)
                               Provides the ability for a dashboard/scorecard
Reporting and                  to include, at a minimum, user defined metrics,
                General   27
 Dashboard                     key performance indicators (KPIs), reports,
                               charts, etc.

Reporting and                  Provides the ability for reporting to be based on
                General   28
 Dashboard                     user security setting

Reporting and                  Provides the ability to save and “publish” ad hoc
                General   29
 Dashboard                     reports for use by others
                                                CMV RFP No. 200807
                                           Business License Software System

Reporting and                     Provides the ability to query and report on any
                 General     30
 Dashboard                        field within any module

Reporting and                     Allows for multiple output options (e.g. display,
                 General     31
 Dashboard                        print, email, etc.)

                                  Provides the ability to run standard and/or
Reporting and
                 General     32   customized reports automatically on a schedule
 Dashboard
                                  for distribution to a group or individuals.

Reporting and                     Allows dashboard to extract and display
                 General     33
 Dashboard                        information from all modules

Reporting and                     Provides the ability to define report period (e.g.
                 General     34
 Dashboard                        from – to)

 Reporting                        Provides daily cash reports to prepare deposit
    and         Cashiering   35   slips, track cash receipted in by denomination,
 Dashboard                        check, electronic deposits, by cashier, etc.
                                  Provides the ability to track and report all
Reporting and
                Cashiering   36   monthly cash (and cash equivalents) receipted in
 Dashboard
                                  and disbursed out
                                  Provides the ability to track and report specific
                                  types of transactions by certain time frame. For
Reporting and
                Cashiering   37   example, number of EFT in a specific month or
 Dashboard
                                  number of ACH’s executed during year, number
                                  of deposits on a specific date, etc.
                                  Ability to format a report (integrate) to upload
Reporting and
                Cashiering   38   check deposit information to Bank of America
 Dashboard
                                  remote desktop deposit.
                                  Ability to manage the payment collection and
Reporting and
                Cashiering   39   processing activities via a single
 Dashboard
                                  payment/screen window (GUI).
                                                CMV RFP No. 200807
                                           Business License Software System

                                  The screen (GUI) should be user-definable,
                                  scrollable, and sizable to display the following
Reporting and                     areas of information: (1) payment class area(s)
                Cashiering   40
 Dashboard                        showing the revenue distribution of each
                                  payment; and (2) tender area showing the
                                  amount and type of each tender collected.
                                  Ability to process cash, credit card, check, EFT,
Reporting and
                Cashiering   41   electronic bank file transactions in an on-line or
 Dashboard
                                  batch mode.
                                  Ability to provide ODBC to CIS application for
Reporting and
                Cashiering   42   real-time business license account inquiry and
 Dashboard
                                  account update. (If third-party application)

Reporting and                     Ability to provide an audit trail showing the
                Cashiering   43
 Dashboard                        source of payments, walk-in, mail, etc.

Reporting and                     Ability to make on-line corrections of misapplied
                Cashiering   44
 Dashboard                        transactions.

Reporting and                     Provide on-line account number validation for
                Cashiering   45
 Dashboard                        payments.
                                  Ability to apply payments to a customer's
Reporting and                     account(s) in a user-defined hierarchy which is
                Cashiering   46
 Dashboard                        parameter-driven and easy to modify (pay in
                                  full, underpay, overpay).
                                  Immediately reflect payments received from on-
                                  line cash on the customer's business license
Reporting and
                Cashiering   47   account as a pending payment. Overnight or
 Dashboard
                                  end-of-day batch processing should not be
                                  required to view the most recent transaction.
                                  Ability to apply a single payment to multiple
Reporting and
                Cashiering   48   accounts or payments paying with a single check
 Dashboard
                                  or other tender type.
                                                CMV RFP No. 200807
                                           Business License Software System

                                  Ability to post payments to accounts that have
Reporting and                     been charged-off. Transfer payments from one
                Cashiering   49
 Dashboard                        account to another, process payment
                                  adjustments on-line or in batch mode.

Reporting and                     Ability to provide a printed receipt for each
                Cashiering   50
 Dashboard                        transaction processed.

Reporting and                     Ability to print balance due when partial
                Cashiering   51
 Dashboard                        payments are made on receipt.

Reporting and                     Ability to void or cancel a receipt through
                Cashiering   52
 Dashboard                        proper security levels.
                                  Ability to process payment transactions on-line
Reporting and
                Cashiering   53   or in batch mode utilizing bar code scanning or
 Dashboard
                                  OCR scanning technology.
                                  Ability to balance cash drawer daily and
                                  produce a reconcilable, consolidated, end-of-day
Reporting and
                Cashiering   54   balancing report that includes all payment
 Dashboard
                                  processing transactions by all users in both
                                  summary and detail format.
Reporting and                     Ability to support a variety of Cash Drawer
                Cashiering   55
 Dashboard                        models, receipt printers, and OCR readers.
                                  Ability to interface with credit or debit/ATM
Reporting and                     card authorizing/processing software
                Cashiering   56
 Dashboard                        applications, to facilitate automatic on-line
                                  authorization for all major credit cards.
                                  Ability to establish a date in advance or arrears
                                  of the actual current default date for payment
Reporting and                     posting that will allow finance charges to accrue
                Cashiering   57
 Dashboard                        by the selected payment date, not the date
                                  processed. Auto penalty and interest
                                  calculations by batch processed date.
                                                CMV RFP No. 200807
                                           Business License Software System
                                  Ability to transfer comments related to
Reporting and                     miscellaneous City Payments to the Central
                Cashiering   58
 Dashboard                        Square ONESolution General Ledger module
                                  through an interface.
                                  Ability to upload/populate General Ledger
Reporting and                     account numbers from the Central Square
                Cashiering   59
 Dashboard                        ONESolution General Ledger module into the
                                  Cashiering application through an interface.
                                  Ability to accommodate a General Ledger
Reporting and
                Cashiering   60                         xxxxxx-xxxxx or
                                  account number as follows:
 Dashboard
                                  xxxxxx-xxxxx/xxxxxxx-xxxxxx
Reporting and                     Ability to access, search and print archived cash
                Cashiering   61
 Dashboard                        batches at the detail level.

Reporting and
                Cashiering
 Dashboard
                                  Supports the ability to attach multiple media
 Document                         formats (e.g. audio, video, image, etc.) and file
                             62
Management                        types (e.g. Excel, Word, PDF, etc.) to transactions
                                  in all modules
                                  Provides the ability to support retention policies
 Document
                             63   with respect to documents managed by the
Management
                                  system
                                  Offers drill-down/drill across features for users
 Document
                             64   to view documents associated with financial,
Management
                                  payroll, and personnel transactions
                                  Integrates with the existing document
                                  management solution.
 Document
                             65   Provide in the “Response/Comments” section a
Management
                                  list of all document management vendors your
                                  solution has built integrations.
                                CMV RFP No. 200807
                           Business License Software System

                  Provides the ability to create, store, and retrieve
                  electronic images (e.g. purchase orders, payroll
 Document
             66   checks, accounts payable invoices, etc.) that are
Management
                  attached to the appropriate transaction record
                  for all modules

                  Supports document scanning and attachment,
                  and makes documents accessible throughout all
 Document
             67   modules (i.e. requisition, purchase order,
Management
                  packing slips, accounts payable, budget,
                  onboarding, leave, etc.)
                  Allows the system administrator to:
Audit and            -Define a minimum length password
             68
Sercurity            -Define a password expiration timeframe
                     -Prohibit reusing of passwords

                  Allows the system administrator to:
                     -Configure control access to the application,
                  modules, transactions, data and reports
                     -Define access rights (e.g. create, read,
                  update, delete) by user ID or functional role
Audit and            -Define functional access rights (e.g.
             69
Sercurity         processes, screens, fields, and reports) by user ID
                  or functional role
                     -Restrict access to sensitive data elements (e.g.
                  social security numbers, banking data, etc.) by
                  user ID, user groups or functional role
                                 CMV RFP No. 200807
                            Business License Software System
                   Maintains audit logging to record access activity
                   with date/time stamps:
                      -Login/logout attempts by user and
                   workstation
Audit and
              70      -User submitted transactions
Sercurity
                      -Initiated processes
                      -System overrides
                      -Additions, changes, or deletes to application
                   maintained data
                   Supports online applications and renewals,
 Business
              71   including payment of taxes and printing of
License Tax
                   certificate from a secure portal
 Business          Provides mobile application for field staff to
              72
License Tax        perform inquiry on business tax data
                   Provides ability to flag businesses requiring
 Business          background checks, fingerprinting, drug and
              73
License Tax        alcohol tests, inspections, contractor’s license,
                   etc. before issuance
                   Provides electronic workflow approval routing
                   and / or notification distribution to multiple
 Business
              74   departments based on business type and related
License Tax
                   rules. Automatic notification to Finance
                   Department upon approval by Planning


                   Provides ability to calculate multiple taxes
                   and/or prorate taxes utilizing a user-defined tax
                   structure based on factors including number of
                   employees, gross receipts, number of residential
 Business
              75   units, number of commercial square feet, flat
License Tax
                   dollar amount, non-profit status, downtown
                   location, start date etc. See two attatchments:
                   City of Mountain View Ordinance 17.18 and
                   Business Improvement Area Map & Rate Sheet.
                                 CMV RFP No. 200807
                            Business License Software System
                   Provides bar code functionality to capture
                   customer billing information (including amount
 Business
              76   due), with bar code appearing on bills, and
License Tax
                   ability to scan and retrieve customer billing
                   information.
 Business          Provides the ability to create custom reports
              77
License Tax        using fields within the module
 Business          Provides ability to calculate late penalties after
              78
License Tax        prescribed time period
                   Provides multiple application periods (i.e.
 Business
              79   annual, quarterly, etc.) based on either calendar
License Tax
                   or date of application
                   Provides automated process for annual renewal
 Business          notification, including electronic (email)
              80
License Tax        notification capabilities and/or printing
                   notifications
                   Fully integrated with general ledger and
 Business
              81   cashiering modules for posting of revenue and
License Tax
                   reporting
                   Robust query and reporting including query
 Business          capability on all data entry fields and statistical
              82
License Tax        reporting of businesses by type, by date range,
                   etc.
 Business          Provides unlimited user defined business
              83
License Tax        classifications and types
                   Provides the ability to generate custom late and
                   final notices including labels for mailing (mail
                   merge). Notice template should include City
 Business
              84   logo, forwarding balance, account number,
License Tax
                   customer number, itemized charges & late fees
                   & penalties, an area for additional comments,
                   and payment coupon.

                   System-generated account number and customer
 Business
              85   number. New account number must follow current
License Tax
                   City sequential number.
                                  CMV RFP No. 200807
                             Business License Software System
                   Ability to provide the following status of an account:
 Business          open, closed, in-City, out of City, delinquent, date
              86
License Tax        business started in Mountain Vew, business license
                   expiration date
 Business          Ability to transfer customer/business data from one
              87
License Tax        location to another.

 Business
              88   Ability to let customer/business register for multiple
License Tax
                   business types in one business location
 Business
              89
License Tax        Ability to modify charges or payments manually
 Business
              90
License Tax        Ability to calculate 2-year backbilling or 3-year credit

 Business
              91   Ability to transfer all current City business license
License Tax
                   database to new system including comments fields.

 Business
              92   Ability to record business names with punctuation
License Tax
                   marks, and allow unlitimited number of characters


 Business          Ability to cross reference entire database and notify
              93   operator of delinquent status, same name, same FEIN,
License Tax
                   previous business location, etc. when customer
                   applies for new business license.
 Business          Ability to add $4.00 mandated State Fee AB1379 to all
              94
License Tax        new business licenses until 12-31-2023.
                   Ability to run custom and system-generated reports
 Business          including, but not limited to: reports by business type,
              95   location, start date, aging, GIS, owner, address, e-mail
License Tax
                   address, size, history by location, by owner, by type,
                   EIN, SSN, etc.
                                                                                        Attachment F



                                          ORDINANCE NO. 17.18


                            AN ORDINANCE OF THE PEOPLE OF THE
                  CITY OF MOUNTAIN VIEW AMENDING CHAPTER 18
                   OF THE MOUNTAIN VIEW CITY CODE REGARDING
                           BUSINESS REGISTRATION AND LICENSE TAX




          THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF MOUNTAIN VIEW DO HEREBY ORDAIN AS
FOLLOWS:


          Section 1.
                 Chapter 18 of the Mountain View City Code is hereby repealed as of
October 1, 2019 and replaced in its entirety, to read as follows:

                                        Article I. - Business Licenses.


SEC. 18. 1. - Purpose.


        This chapter is enacted for the purpose of registering those persons operating a
business in the city and to generate revenues to provide critical services and
infrastructure for the benefit of the business and residential communities within the city
through a business license tax.


Sec. 18. 2. - Definitions.


      For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the
meaning respectively ascribed to them by this section unless the context plainly
requires otherwise:




          Appeals hearing board. The city manager or any person or body he or she may
appoint to hear one ( 1) or more appeals under this chapter.


          Business. Any commercial or industrial enterprise, trade, profession,
occupation, vocation, calling or livelihood, but not including the services rendered by
an employee to his/ her employer. Independent contractors, the self-employed and sole
proprietors are also engaged in a business as defined here.


          Business          operator.   A person who transacts,     maintains,   manages,     operates,

controls, engages in, conducts, carries on and/ or owns a business regulated under this
chapter.




          CPI Index.          The Consumer Price Index -All Urban Consumers for All Items for
the San Francisco -Oakland -Hayward Area or any successor to that index designated by
the federal Bureau of Labor Statistics or the city council.

          Employee.          Any person who works for or under the direction of, or on behalf of
or as an agent of a business operator.


          Fixed place of business.          The premises occupied for the particular purpose of
operating a business.

          Manager.          Any person who, as agent of the business operator, is in charge of the
operation of a business.           The manager shall serve as the city' s contact person for the
business.


          Owner. Every person having more than a ten percent (                   10%)   interest, legal,
equitable or otherwise, in any business or business premises.


KB/ 2/ ORD
015 -06 -26 -18o -E- 1 -                              1-
          Person.Any natural individual, firm, partnership, joint venture, association,
corporation, limited liability company, estate, trust, receiver, syndicate or other group
or combination acting as a unit and includes the plural as well as the singular number.

          Tax administrator.              The finance and administrative services director of the City
of Mountain View, or successor position or his or her designee.


SEC. 18. 3 - Registration and license application procedures.


          a. All licenses required by this chapter shall be subject to the procedures of
this chapter and administrative guidelines promulgated by the tax administrator
consistent with this chapter.


          b.         All applications for licenses shall be accompanied by the business license
tax, as set forth in this chapter.


SEC. 18.4. - Exemptions.


          a.   Except as may be otherwise specifically provided in this chapter, the terms
hereof shall not be deemed or construed to apply to qualified nonprofit organizations,
institutions, corporations or associations; persons or entities exempt from city taxation
under state or federal law; or any person when imposition of the tax upon that person
would violate the Constitution of the United States or that of the State of California. The

burden of proof of exempt status is on the person claiming the exemption. Acceptable
documentation must be provided to support the claimed exemption.


          b.         No public utility making franchise payments to the city shall be subject to
the provisions of this chapter.


          C.         Business         operators   whose   annual   gross   receipts   from   such business
operations
                   city are five thousand ($ 5, 000) dollars or
                   in        the                                                         less.   Acceptable
documentation must be provided to support the claimed exemption.


SEC. 18. 5. - Application.


          a.
                     Every business operator required to have a license under the provisions of
this chapter shall submit an application to the tax administrator and register his or her
business on a form established by the tax administrator that contains or is accompanied
by the following information:

                        1)
                     The type of ownership of the business, i.e., whether individual,
partnership, a corporation or otherwise. If the applicant is a corporation, the name of
the corporation shall be set forth exactly as shown in its articles of incorporation;

                      2)           The name under which the business is to be conducted;


                      3)
                    The primary address of the business and the addresses of all
business locations operating in the city;

                      4)           The name, address and contact information of the manager of the
business;


                      5)           Number of employees of the business;


                        6)         Business license tax due; and


                        7)         Such other information as the tax administrator deems necessary.


KB/ 2/ ORD
015- 06- 26- 180- E- 1 -                                  2-
          b.         Each applicant for a license shall properly fill in one (            1)   of   such


applications, sign the same and certify, under penalty of perjury, that the contents
thereof are true and correct. The completed application shall be submitted to the tax

administrator, who shall verify the proper amount of the business license tax due and
shall issue the appropriate license on payment of such amount.


          C.         An application shall not be deemed complete until all the information

required by this section has been provided to the tax administrator and the business
license tax has been paid.


SEC. 18. 6. - Denial, suspension or revocation.


       An application for a license may be denied and a license issued pursuant to this
chapter may be suspended or revoked by the tax administrator upon any of the
following grounds identified herein:

           1)        A false statement of fact or omission of a fact required to be revealed in an

application for the license, or in any amendment or report or other information required
to be made thereunder;


           2) The premises in which the licensed activity will occur or the proposed use
for which the license is sought is in violation of any building, zoning, health, safety, fire,
police or other provision of this code or of county, state or federal law which
substantially affects the public health, welfare or safety;

           3)        Violation of the terms and conditions of the license, or other requirements

of this chapter or the Mountain View city code.

SEC. 18. 7. - Notice of decision.


          a.         Upon determining the existence of any of the grounds for denial,
suspension or revocation of a license in accordance with Sec. 18. 6, the tax administrator

may issue to the licensee a notice of decision to deny, suspend or revoke the license.

          b.         The notice of decision shall state all the grounds and reasons upon which
the denial, suspension or revocation is based.


          C.         The notice   of decision   shall    advise   that the   denial,   suspension     or

revocation shall become final unless the applicant or licensee files a written request for

hearing before the tax administrator within the time period specified in Sec. 18. 26
 Procedure for hearing before the tax administrator).

          d.         The notice of decision shall specify the effective date of the denial,
suspension or revocation of such license.


SEC. 18. 8. - Issuance; Contents.


       It shall be the duty of the tax administrator to prepare and issue a license under
this chapter for every person liable to pay such business license tax, the period of time
covered thereby, the name of the person to whom issued, the business licensed and the
location or place where such business is to be operated.


SEC. 18. 09. - Expiration date.


          Unless otherwise established by resolution of the council, all business licenses
shall expire on December 31 of each year.



KB/ 2/ ORD
015- 06- 26- 180- E- 1 -                            3-
SEC. 18. 10. - Time and manner of payment.


       The annual business license taxes shall be due and payable to the city on the first
 1st) day of January of each year, unless otherwise established by resolution of the city
council. All business license taxes under this chapter shall be paid by the due date in the
legal currency of the United States at the office of the tax administrator.

SEC. 18. 11. - Renewal of license.


          No license may be renewed unless:

          a.         An application for renewal of the business license, together with the
payment         of   the   applicable   annual    business   license   tax, is   filed   with   the   tax
administrator prior to the expiration date of the current license; and


          b.         The licensee meets all of the requirements of this chapter.


          C.         If such application for renewal is not filed, or the annual business license
tax is not paid prior to the expiration date of a license, the license shall be deemed
suspended until such time as the application for renewal is filed, the annual business
license tax and, if applicable, penalties paid and a new license has been issued.


SEC. 18. 12. -       Penalty for late renewal.

          a.  Original delinquency. Any person who is subject to the business license
tax who fails to remit any amount imposed by this chapter within the time required
shall pay a penalty of ten percent ( 10%) of the amount of the business license tax owed
in addition to the amount due.


          b.    Continued delinquency. Any person who is subject to the business
license tax who fails to remit any delinquent remittance on or before a period of thirty
  30) days following the date on which the remittance first became delinquent shall pay
a second delinquency penalty of ten percent ( 10%) of the amount of the business
license tax owed in addition to the amount of the tax and the ten percent (10%) penalty
first imposed.


          C. Fraud. If the tax administrator determines that the nonpayment of any
remittance due under this chapter is due to fraud, a penalty of twenty-five percent
 25%) of the amount of the business license tax shall be added thereto in addition to
the penalties stated in subparagraphs a. and b. of this section.



          d.Interest. In addition to the penalties imposed, any person engaged in a
business who fails to remit any business license tax imposed by this chapter shall pay
interest at the rate of one percent ( 1%)        per month or fraction thereof on the amount of
the business license tax, exclusive of penalties, from the date on which the remittance
first became delinquent until paid.


          e.
                     Penalties merged with tax. Every penalty imposed and such interest as
accrues under the provisions of this section shall become a part of the business license
tax herein required to be paid.


SEC. 18. 13. - Exhibition of license.


       Every person shall keep any license issued pursuant to this chapter exhibited in a
public and readily accessible place and shown to any police officer, city inspector or
other person upon request while business is operated in the city under that license.

KB/ 2/ ORD
015 -06 -26 -18o -E- 1 -                             4-
SEC. 18.14. -       Transferability.

          a.         If a licensed business moves to another location, the original license shall
be presented to the tax administrator, together with a statement of such proposed

relocation. The tax administrator may approve the transfer of the license to the new
location.


          b.
           No license granted or issued under any provisions of this chapter shall be
in any manner transferred or assigned or authorize any person other than is therein
mentioned or named to do business. Rather, a new application for license in the name of
the proposed transferee shall be presented to the tax administrator, who shall consider
the application as provided in this chapter.


SEC. 18. 15. - Issuance of duplicates; Errors.


          The tax administrator shall charge for each duplicate license issued to replace
any license issued under the provisions of this chapter which has been lost or
destroyed. Such charge shall be in an amount set from time to time by resolution of the
city council. In no case shall any error in stating the amount of the business license tax
prevent or prejudice the collection by the city of what shall be actually due from anyone
carrying on a business subject to a license under this chapter.

SEC. 18. 16. - License tax imposed; Method of calculation.


          a.         From and after the date specified in paragraph c. of this section below,

unless otherwise specifically provided for in this chapter, every business operator in the
city shall pay an annual business registration and license tax based on the average
number of employees of the business in the city, in the most recent four ( 4) quarters
completed before the date the payment as set forth herein. The average number of
employees          of       the   business   shall   be   the    number   of   employees   reported    to    the
Employment Development Department. The average number of employees of the

business may also be disclosed in a manner as approved by the tax administrator.

                 Number                                         Authorized Maximum
               of Employees                          Business Registration and License Tax

                        1               75

                    2- 25               75 + $ 5/ employee for each employee over 1

                   26- 50               195 + $ 10/ employee for each employee over 25

                  51- 500               445 + $ 75/ employee for each employee over 50 employees

                 501- 1, 000            34, 195 + $ 100/ employee for each employee over
                                       500 employees

                1, 001- 5, 000          84, 195 + $ 125/ employee for each employee over 1, 000

                  5, 001+               584,195 + $ 150/ employee for each employee over 5, 000



          b.  The provisions of this chapter shall apply to business operators having
no fixed place of business within the city whose employees come into the city for the
purpose of conducting a business or rendering services when such employees come
into the city for these purposes six ( 6) or more days during any calendar year. The
business tax payable by such business operators shall be the business registration and
license tax, as apportioned in the table below.


                     For purposes of this paragraph b., "           operating a business in the city"       shall


include every person entering into a contract with the city, including,                               without

limitation, contracts for public works, consultant services and franchise agreements.

KB/ 2/ ORD
015- 06- 26- 180- E- 1 -                                    5-
                                          Out -of -Town Businesses

                                    Business Registration and License Tax

                           6- 64 days                65- 129 days              130+ days

                             25%                        50%                      100%



          C.         The due date of the business registration and license tax under this section
shall be as follows:


                      1)
                    Persons operating businesses with fifty (50) employees or less shall
pay the business registration and license tax owed in subsections a. and b. above
beginning January 1, 2020;

                      2)
                     Persons operating businesses with fifty-one ( 51) employees or more
shall pay a phased -in tax as follows:

                             i.         January 1,    2020:     One-third ( 1/ 3)     of the total business
registration        and    license      tax owed (   rounded up to the nearest whole dollar)             in
subsections a. and b. above;


                             ii.        January 1,    2021:     Two- thirds ( 2/ 3)   of the total business
registration        and    license      tax owed (   rounded up to the nearest whole dollar)             in
subsections a. and b. above; and


                             iii.       January 1,    2022 and thereafter:       The full amount of the
business registration and license tax owed in subsections a. and b. above.


                      3)
                     Business operators who apply for a new business license between
October 1, 2019 and December 31, 2019 shall pay a prorated business license tax based
on the tax that was in effect as of January 1, 2019.

SEC. 18. 17. - Annual adjustments for inflation.


       Subject to approval of the city council, the business license tax may be adjusted
annually, commencing on January 1, 2021 and every year thereafter, if the cost of living
in the city has increased over the preceding base period as shown by the CPI Index. The
CPI Index will be set in December of each year or as established in the administrative

guidelines promulgated by the tax administrator in accordance with this Chapter.

SEC. 18. 18. - Refunds and proration.


          a.         All licenses shall be issued from the date set forth in the license and no
licensee shall be entitled to the refund of any portion of the tax paid by reason of the
termination of such licensed activity before the license expires.

          b. Any business required to cease activity within the city as the result of
public acquisition of the premises by any governmental agency shall be entitled to a
refund of an amount prorated as to the time remaining under the license when the
business activity ceases. Such licensee shall file a verified claim with the tax
administrator stating the date of and reason for cessation of business activity.

          C. The business license tax may be prorated in accordance with the
administrative guidelines promulgated by the tax administrator.




KB/ 2/ ORD
015 -06 -26 -18o -E- 1 -                                   6-
SEC. 18. 19. -      Collection of taxes by court action.

       The amount of any business license tax imposed by this chapter shall be deemed
a debt to the city, and any business operating without having a license from the city so
to do shall be liable to an action in the name of the city in any court of competent
jurisdiction for the amount of the business license tax imposed on such business,

together with all penalties and interest then due thereon in any such action, and any
cost the city reasonably incurs to collect the tax, including attorneys' fees which, if
judgment is recovered, shall be included and assessed as recoverable costs in such
action.




SEC. 18. 20. - Powers and duties of tax administrator.


          The tax administrator shall have the power and duty, and is hereby directed, to
enforce each and all of the provisions of this chapter. The tax administrator shall have
the power to promulgate administrative guidelines consistent with the provisions of

this chapter for the purpose of carrying out and enforcing the provisions of this chapter.
A copy of any such administrative guidelines shall be on file and available for public
examination in the tax administrator' s office and posted to the city' s website.

SEC. 18. 21. - Enforcement of chapter.


        All city enforcement officers and enforcement officials, including, but not limited
to, police officers and code enforcement officers, are hereby appointed inspectors of
licenses and are hereby authorized to examine all places of business and persons in the
city liable to pay a business license tax to see that such business licenses are taken out;
and shall have and exercise the following powers and duties:

          a.
                     To issue citations for the violation of any of the provisions of this chapter.

          b.  To enter free of charge, at any time, any place of business for which a
license is required by this chapter and to demand the exhibition of such license for the
current term by any person engaged or employed in the transaction of such business,
and if such person shall then and there fail to exhibit such license, such person shall be

liable for the penalties provided by this code and other applicable law for a violation of
this chapter.


SEC. 18. 22. -      Liability of permittee or licensee.

          a.
            The licensee shall be liable for every violation of the requirements of this
chapter committed by the licensee, or the licensee' s manager or employee.

          b.         In the case of a violation of a requirement of this chapter by an employee,
the tax administrator shall have the discretion to take enforcement action against the
licensee, the employee of the licensee, the manager who was present at the premises at
the time the employee committed the violation or against any combination of them.

          C.  In the case of a violation of a requirement of this chapter by a manager,
the city shall have the discretion to take enforcement action against the licensee, the
manager or both.


SEC. 18. 23. - Cumulative remedies.


          This chapter provides for administrative enforcement of its provisions, which are

in addition to all other legal remedies, administrative, criminal or civil, which may be
pursued by the city to address any violation of this chapter provided only that the city
may not recover any sum due under this chapter more than once.


KB/ 2/ ORD
015- 06- 26- 180- E- 1 -                             7-
SEC. 18. 24. -      Procedure for hearing before the tax administrator.

          With regard to a license issued by the tax administrator:

          a.   The written request for a hearing before the tax administrator must be
received by the tax administrator within ten ( 10) calendar days of the date of service of
the notice of decision to deny, suspend or revoke the license.

          b.   The tax administrator shall schedule a hearing which shall be held no later
than sixty (60) calendar days after receipt of a timely request for hearing.

          C.   The tax administrator shall serve a notice of hearing on the applicant or
licensee not later than ten (10) calendar days prior to the scheduled date of the hearing.

          d.  At the hearing before the tax administrator, the applicant or licensee shall
be given the opportunity to present witnesses and documentary evidence.

          e.
               The hearing will be conducted informally and the technical rules of
evidence shall not apply. Any and all evidence which the tax administrator deems
reliable, relevant and not unduly repetitious may be considered.

SEC. 18.25. - Decision of the tax administrator.


          a.
              Within thirty (30) calendar days after the hearing, the tax administrator
shall serve a written decision sustaining, reversing or modifying his or her decision on
the applicant or licensee. If the licensed business involves expressive conduct protected

by the First Amendment to the United States Constitution and comparable provisions of
state law, the decision shall be rendered within five (5) business days of the hearing.

          b. The decision by the tax administrator after hearing shall become final
unless the applicant or licensee files an appeal before the appeals hearing board within
the time period specified in Sec. 18. 26.


SEC. 18. 26. -      Appeal to appeals hearing board.

          a.         If an applicant or licensee is dissatisfied with the written decision of the

tax administrator, he or she may file an appeal to the appeals hearing board.

          b. The appeal must be in writing on a form provided by the appeals hearing
board and received by the appeals hearing board within fifteen (15) calendar days of the
date of the tax administrator' s decision.


          C.
              The appeal hearing shall be conducted in accordance with the rules and
regulations of the appeals hearing board as set forth in the administrative guidelines.

          d. The written decision of the appeals hearing board shall be final when
served on the appellant and shall be the final decision of the city, subject to judicial
review pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure Sec. 1094. 5.




          The tax administrator shall have the right to audit records of the businesses
subject to the business license tax to ensure compliance with this chapter. Businesses

shall retain records pertaining the business license tax for a period of three ( 3) years
from the end of each calendar year, and shall allow the city access to such records, with
appropriate notice and at a mutually agreeable time, to monitor compliance with the
requirements of this chapter. Where a business does not maintain or retain adequate
records documenting the number of its employees or does not allow the city reasonable
KB/ 2/ ORD
015- 06- 26- 180- E- 1 -                           8-
access to such records, the city' s calculation of the number of employees of the business
shall be presumed to be accurate, absent clear and convincing evidence otherwise.

SEC. 18.28. -        Constitutionality and legality; Gann limit.

          a.
             This tax is intended to be applied consistently with the United States and
California Constitutions, state law and the city charter. The tax shall not be applied so
as to cause an undue burden upon interstate commerce, a violation of the equal
protection and due process clauses of the Constitutions of the United States or the State

of California, to constitute a special tax, or to cause a violation of any other provision of
applicable law.


          b.         Pursuant to California Constitution, Article XIII B, the appropriation limit

for the city is hereby increased to the maximum extent over the maximum period of
time allowed under law by the amount of the revenues generated by the tax."

          Section 2.          Amendment of Ordinance.
                                               This Ordinance may be repealed or
amended by the City Council without a vote of the People in any manner which does
not constitute a tax increase as that term is defined in Government Code Section 53750.
In particular, and without limitation, the City Council may adopt a lower tax rate or
amount under this ordinance and raise it again to the level authorized by this
Ordinance without further voter approval.


          Section 3.
                 Severability. If any section, sentence, clause, phrase, or portion of this
Ordinance is held to be invalid or unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction for
any reason, the remaining sections, sentences, clauses, phrases, or portions of this
Ordinance shall nonetheless remain in full force and effect.    The People of the City of
Mountain View hereby declare that they would have adopted each section, sentence,
clause, phrase, or portion of this Ordinance, irrespective of the fact that any one ( 1) or
more sections, sentences, clauses, phrases, or portions of this Ordinance be declared
invalid        or   unenforceable     and, to   that end, the   provisions   of this Ordinance are
severable.




          Section 4.         General Tax.
                                  The tax imposed by this Ordinance is a general tax for
general governmental purposes.
                                    The proceeds from the tax imposed by this Ordinance
shall be for unrestricted general revenue purposes of the City and shall be accounted for
in the General Fund of the City. Nothing in this Ordinance shall constitute the tax
imposed under this Ordinance as a special tax, or bind the City to use the proceeds for
any specific purpose or function; the City Council shall retain discretion to expend the
proceeds of the tax for any lawful purpose of the City.

          Section 5.
                 Majority Approval and Effective Date. If a majority of voters casting
votes on the question are in favor of the ballot measure regarding this Ordinance, this
Ordinance shall be adopted upon the date the vote therefor is declared by the City
Council and shall go into effect October 1, 2019.                 Upon the effective date of this
Ordinance, the Tax Administrator shall record in a separate account all revenue raised

by this Ordinance. A yearly independent audit of the funds collected pursuant to this
Ordinance will be conducted.


       Section 6. California Environmental Quality Act Requirements. The tax imposed
by this Ordinance is a general tax which may be used for any legitimate governmental
purpose, including funding future unspecified projects. The City is not committed to
undertake any specific project, however. The tax in this context is not a project within
the meaning of CEQA because it involves " government funding mechanisms or other
government fiscal activities which do not involve any commitment to any specific
project which may result in a potentially significant physical impact on the
environment" (             CEQA Guidelines Section 15378( b)(4)).    If revenue from the tax were



KB/ 2/ ORD
015 -06 -26 -18o -E- 1 -                              9-
used for a future project that would have such effect, the City would undertake the
required CEQA review for the particular project at that time.


          Section 7.       Execution of Ordinance.
                                         The People of the City of Mountain View
hereby authorize the Mayor and City Clerk of the City to execute this Ordinance to
reflect its adoption at the November 6, 2018 election.




       I hereby certify that the foregoing Ordinance was adopted by the voters of the
City of Mountain View at the November 6, 2018 election.



LEONARD M. SIEGEL
MAYOR




ATTEST:




LISA NATUSCH
CITY CLERK




KB/ 2/ ORD
015 -06 -26 -18o -E- 1 -                             10-
