              CITY OF DULUTH


        REQUEST FOR PROPOSALS FOR


COMMUNITY DEVLEOPMENT SOFTWARE SOLUTION


            RFP NUMBER 20-05AA

              ISSUED 2/10/2020




           PROPOSALS DUE 3/2/2020

                 SUBMIT TO

               CITY OF DULUTH
             ATTN: PURCHASING
            CITY HALL, ROOM 120
            411 WEST 1ST STREET
              DULUTH, MN 55802




                 Page 1 of 14
                                              PART I

                                   GENERAL INFORMATION

I-1.    Introduction. The City of Duluth is soliciting proposals for the purchase of a state-of-the
art, integrated Community Development Management Software Suite including Planning,
Permitting and Licensing as well an integrated online customer portal. The total Project will
include the selection and acquisition of software and hardware, installation, training and
maintenance costs to replace or upgrade the current system.

The overall goals are as follows:
   • Improve service to the public
   • Provide user-friendly software applications for planning, permitting and licensing
      personnel
   • Provide an accurate and efficient means to manage the various Community Development
      data needs
   • Provide security to ensure confidentiality while providing ease of access through roles and
      permissions.
   • Provide flexibility to allow for emerging technologies and future expansion
   • Enhance field worker safety and efficiency by providing remote access to the necessary
      data in the field.
   • Provide integrated solutions for data sharing and workflow amongst various departments
      and our customers as necessary.

I-2.   Calendar of Events. The City will make every effort to adhere to the following schedule:

                                 Activity                                             Date

  Pre-proposal Conference.                                                   2/19/2020 at 10:30 am

  Answers to questions will be posted to the City website no later than
                                                                                    2/21/2020
  this date.

  Proposals must be received in the Purchasing Office by 4:30 PM on
                                                                                    3/2/2020
  this date.

I-3.    Rejection of Proposals. The City reserves the right, in its sole and complete discretion,
to reject any and all proposals or cancel the request for proposals, at any time prior to the time a
contract is fully executed, when it is in its best interests. The City is not liable for any costs the
Vendor incurs in preparation and submission of its proposal, in participating in the RFP process
or in anticipation of award of the contract.

I-4.    Pre-proposal Conference. The City will hold a Pre-proposal conference on Wednesday,
February 19, 2020 at 10:30 am in the Large Admin Conference Room. Interested Proposers may
participate by conference call. Please email purchasing@duluthmn.gov for call-in number and
instructions.




                                            Page 2 of 14
The purpose of this conference is to provide opportunity for clarification of the RFP. Attendance
at the Pre-proposal Conference is optional.

I-5.   Questions & Answers. Any questions regarding this RFP must be submitted by e-mail
to the Purchasing Office at purchasing@duluthmn.gov no later than close of business on
2/19/2020. Answers to the questions will be posted as an Addendum to the RFP.

I-6.     Addenda to the RFP. If the City deems it necessary to revise any part of this RFP before
the proposal response date, the City will post an addendum to its website
http://www.duluthmn.gov/purchasing/bids-request-for-proposals/ . Although an e-mail notification
will be sent, it is the Vendor’s responsibility to periodically check the website for any new
information.

I-7.  Intent to Propose. Prospective Vendors are encouraged to send an e-mail to
purchasing@duluthmn.gov indicating their intent to submit a proposal. Indicating an intent to
propose does not obligate the vendor, however it will ensure that the Vendor will be notified when
any addenda or other notices are posted pertaining to the RFP.

I-8.     Modification or Withdrawal of Proposals. Vendors may modify or withdraw their
proposals prior to the due date and time by submitting their modifications or request to withdraw
in writing to the Purchasing Division.
I-9.   Proposals. To be considered, hard copies of proposals must arrive at the City on or
before the time and date specified in the RFP Calendar of Events. The City will not accept
proposals via email or facsimile transmission. The City reserves the right to reject proposals or
to deduct evaluation points for late proposals.
Proposals must be signed by an authorized official. If the official signs the Proposal Cover Sheet
attached as Appendix A, this requirement will be met. Proposals must remain valid for 90 days
or until a contract is fully executed.
Please submit one (1) paper copy of the Technical Submittal and one (1) paper copy of the Cost
Submittal. The Cost Submittal should be in a separate sealed envelope within the proposal
package. In addition, Bidders shall submit one copy of the entire proposal (Technical and Cost
submittals, along with all requested documents) on flash drive in Microsoft Office-compatible or
pdf format.
All materials submitted in response to this RFP will become property of the City and will become
public record after the evaluation process is completed and an award decision made.

I-10. Disadvantaged Business Enterprises. The City encourages participation by minority,
women, and veteran-owned businesses as prime contractors, and encourages all prime
contractors to make a significant commitment to use minority, women, veteran-owned and other
disadvantaged business entities as subcontractors and suppliers, if possible.

A list of certified Disadvantaged Business Enterprises is maintained by the Minnesota Unified
Certification Program at http://mnucp.metc.state.mn.us/ .

I-11. Tax Exempt Status. The City is exempt from paying sales tax. A copy of the Certificate
of Exemption will provided upon request.


                                           Page 3 of 14
I-12. Term of Contract. The term of the contract will begin once the contract is fully executed.
The selected Bidder shall not start the performance of any work nor shall the City be liable to pay
the selected Bidder for any service or work performed or expenses incurred before issuance of a
Notice to Proceed.

I-13. Mandatory Disclosures. By submitting a proposal, each Bidder understands, represents,
and acknowledges that:
       A.      Their proposal has been developed by the Bidder independently and has been
               submitted without collusion with and without agreement, understanding, or
               planned common course of action with any other vendor or suppliers of materials,
               supplies, equipment, or services described in the Request for Proposals, designed
               to limit independent bidding or competition, and that the contents of the proposal
               have not been communicated by the Bidder or its employees or agents to any
               person not an employee or agent of the Bidder.


       B.      There is no conflict of interest. A conflict of interest exists if a Bidder has any
               interest that would actually conflict, or has the appearance of conflicting, in any
               manner or degree with the performance of work on the project. If there are
               potential conflicts, identify the municipalities, developers, and other public or
               private entities with whom your company is currently, or have been, employed and
               which may be affected.
       C.      It is not currently under suspension or debarment by the State of Minnesota, any
               other state or the federal government.
       D.      The company is either organized under Minnesota law or has a Certificate of
               Authority from the Minnesota Secretary of State to do business in Minnesota, in
               accordance with the requirements in M.S. 303.03.
I-14. Notification of Selection. Vendors whose proposals are not selected will be notified in
writing when contract negotiations have been successfully completed and the City has received
the final negotiated contract signed by the selected Vendor.




                                          Page 4 of 14
                                           PART II

                                PROPOSAL REQUIREMENTS

II-1. Format of Technical Submittal. To facilitate the evaluation of proposals, Vendors should
prepare their technical response in the sequence specified below.
       A. Cover Page
       B. Table of Contents
       C. Section 1: Letter of Intent/Executive Summary
       D. Section 2: Response to Technical Requirements Work Sheet
       E. Section 3: Vendor Attachments
       F. Attachment A- Vendor Offer Signature and Certification Form
       G. Attachment B- Vendor Profile
       H. Attachment C- Description of Service
       I.   Attachment D- General Training Guidelines
       J. Attachment E- Vendor/Solution Provider Contact Data
       K. Attachment F- Vendor References

   Vendors must complete and include the Attachment forms provided in their Proposal.

II-2. Cost Submittal. The Cost Submittal shall be placed in a separate sealed envelope from
the Technical Submittal. The Cost Submittal must include:
       A. A breakdown of all costs involved, including all hardware, software, installation and
          training costs.
       B. A description and cost of any reoccurring fees such as annual maintenance and
          support costs.

The City will reimburse the selected Vendor for work satisfactorily performed after
execution of a written contract and the start of the contract term, in accordance with
contract requirements, and only after the City has issued a notice to proceed.




                                         Page 5 of 14
                                            PART III

                                 CRITERIA FOR SELECTION

III-1. Evaluation. The City has selected a committee of qualified personnel, composed of City
staff to review and evaluate timely submitted proposals. The Vendor whose proposal is
determined to be the most advantageous to the City will be selected.

III-2. Evaluation Criteria. The following criteria will be used in evaluating each proposal:

  A. Technical: The City has established the weight for the Technical criteria for this RFP as
     70% of the total points. The following components will comprise the technical portion of the
     evaluation:

       1. Application Functionality
       The evaluation team will rate the Vendor response to each module as listed in “Technical
       Requirements”. A requirement should be viewed as a minimum need that must be met
       by the Vendor.
       The evaluation team may eliminate any Vendor who does not fulfill all requirements and/or
       does not propose an acceptable alternative or modification. All responses designated as
       alternative or modified must be accompanied by a detailed explanation stating the
       commitment to meet the requirement and all pertinent information relative to the alternate
       or modification. The City reserves the right, at its sole discretion, to determine what
       constitutes an acceptable alternative or modification, and to waive or convert a
       requirement to a desirable feature or drop a requirement altogether from inclusion.
       All responses must indicate the Vendor’s present capability.
       2. Technical Environment and Support
       Factors for evaluation may include, but are not limited to, feature set, capability for
       interface with current systems, standards compliance, operations system(s), suitability
       and flexibility of application software, hardware limitations, ease of use, and ease of
       configuration, administration and security.

       3. Level of Integration
       Preference will be given to those vendors offering a fully integrated suite of applications.
       Preference will also be given to those products that eliminate redundant entry and provide
       a seamless workflow between the various key stakeholder departmental areas of Project
       Planning, Permitting, Licensing, Code Enforcement and the Online Customer Portal.
       Evaluation consideration will also be given to those Vendors who have successful local
       installations of their applications.

       4. System / Information Security
       This set of criteria will evaluate how well the vendor meets regulatory mandates for PCI
       as well as security standards and requirements relating to maintaining the integrity and
       security of internal and external information. The focus of this evaluation will be the
       Vendor’s ability to provide sound hardware, software and operational safeguards and
       compliance requirements of the PCI DSS, Minnesota state government guidelines and
       industry best practices.

       5. Project Implementation and Support

                                          Page 6 of 14
       This set of criteria will evaluate the Vendor’s capability to implement and support the full
       suite of products as requested in the RFP. The evaluation team will also take into
       consideration the implementation plan, the overall timing and duration of the Project, the
       technical capability of and experience of the Vendor, and the Vendor’s vision and strategy.

       6. User Support and Training
       Initial training and ongoing training are critical factors in the evaluation of the Vendor’s
       ability to deliver the final results desired in the RFP. The evaluation team will review
       training and support documentation within the Proposal and rate according to costs,
       desired and future direction.

   The City reserves the right to eliminate from the selection process any proposal that
   scores below to 70% of the total available technical points.

   B. Cost: The City has established the weight for the Cost portion for this RFP as 30% of the
      total points. Cost points are calculated by giving the proposal with the lowest total cost
      the maximum number of Cost points available, and the remaining proposals a lesser
      number of points calculated in reference to the lowest cost.
       The evaluation factors may include, but are not limited to, base price, cost of alternate
       responses or modified responses, annual maintenance, and training. The valuation team
       reserves the right to adjust cost proposals to reflect factors that, in the team’s judgment,
       would result in more accurate costs for their environment. These factors may include, but
       are not limited to, extracting items that are not afforded in the allotted budget for this
       Project, reduction of number of personnel licensed for any application proposed, reduction
       or extraction of various hardware options, and/or reduction of total Project scope.

III-3. Proposal Clarification. After the RFP proposal submission closure date, an award may
be made on the basis of the proposals initially submitted, without any further discussion,
clarification or modification. Therefore, Vendors should make sure their proposals contain their
best offer.

III-4. Product Demonstrations/Presentations. The Evaluation Team will determine if product
demos are required of any Vendor.




                                          Page 7 of 14
 ATTACHMENT A – VENDOR SIGNATURE & CERTIFICATION FORM

 Vendor Name:
                     (Please type or print name of Vendor)
 Street Address:

 City:                                      State:               Zip:


 Phone:                    Fax:                       E-Mail:




I certify that I am a duly authorized representative of the Vendor listed above. The City
of Duluth is hereby authorized to request from any individual or Vendor any information
it deems necessary to verify any information provided by in this Proposal and to
determine the capabilities and responsibility of Vendor as a prospective contractor with
the City of Duluth.



 Signature:
                (Must be signed in full in ink by an officer of your Company)
 Name:                                                          (please type or print)


 Title:                                                         (please type or print)


                                               Date:




                                       Page 8 of 14
ATTACHMENT B – VENDOR PROFILE

  1. Vendor legal name:

  2. Address of the office handling the Project:


  3. Federal ID number:

  4. Type of              Individual    Partnership      Corporation      Government
     Operation:

  5. Can your company provide, upon request, certificates of insurance meeting the
     following requirements?
                                                                   Yes     No

       Consultant shall obtain and maintain for the Term of this Agreement the following
       minimum amounts of insurance from insurance companies authorized to do
       business in the State of Minnesota.
  a.   Public Liability and Automobile Liability Insurance with limits not less than
       $1,500,000 Single Limit, shall be in a company approved by the city of Duluth;
       and shall provide for the following: Liability for Premises, Operations, Completed
       Operations, and Contractual Liability. City of Duluth shall be named as
       Additional Insured by endorsement under the Public Liability and Automobile
       Liability, or as an alternate, Consultant may provide Owners-Contractors
       Protective policy, naming himself and City of Duluth. Upon execution of this
       Agreement, Consultant shall provide Certificate of Insurance evidencing such
       coverage with 30-days’ notice of cancellation, non-renewal or material change
       provisions included.
  b.   Professional Liability Insurance in an amount not less than $1,500,000 Single
       Limit; provided further that in the event the professional malpractice insurance is
       in the form of “claims made,” insurance, 60 days’ notice prior to any cancellation
       or modification shall be required; and in such event, Consultant agrees to provide
       the City with either evidence of new insurance coverage conforming to the
       provisions of this paragraph which will provide unbroken protection to the City, or,
       in the alternative, to purchase at its cost, extended coverage under the old policy
       for the period the state of repose runs; the protection to be provided by said
       “claims made” insurance shall remain in place until the running of the statute of
       repose for claims related to this Agreement.
  c.   Consultant shall also provide evidence of Statutory Minnesota Workers’
       Compensation Insurance.
  d.   A certificate showing continued maintenance of such insurance shall be on file
       with the City during the term of this Agreement.
  e.   The City of Duluth does not represent or guarantee that these types or limits of
       coverage are adequate to protect the Engineer’s interests and liabilities.


                                       Page 9 of 14
6. The selected Vendor will be expected to sign an agreement containing the
   following indemnity clause:

   “To the extent allowed by law, Consultant shall defend, indemnify and hold City
   and its employees, officers, and agents harmless from and against any and all
   cost or expenses, claims or liabilities, including but not limited to, reasonable
   attorneys’ fees and expenses in connection with any claims resulting from the
   Consultant’s a) breach of this agreement or b) its negligence or misconduct or
   that of its agents or contractors in performing the Services hereunder or c) any
   claims arising in connection with Consultant’s employees or contractors, or d) the
   use of any materials supplied by the Consultant to the City unless such material
   was modified by City and such modification is the cause of such claim. This
   Section shall survive the termination of this Agreement for any reason.”

7. Is the Vendor currently for sale or involved in any transaction to expand or to
   become acquired by another business entity? If yes, please explain the impact
   both in organizational and direction terms.
                                                                     Yes     No

8. Are there any past or pending litigation or claims filed against the Vendor? If yes,
   please provide details of each including any affect they may have on their
   performance.
                                                                       Yes       No
9. Is the Vendor currently in default on any loan agreement or financing agreement
   with any bank, financial institute, or other entity? If yes, specify date(s), details,
   circumstances and prospects for resolution.
                                                                       Yes       No

10. Does any current relationship whether a relative, business associate, capital
    funding agreement or any other such kinship, exist between the Vendor and any
    City of Duluth employee or official? If yes, please explain relationship.
                                                                      Yes     No

11. Are there any circumstances impacting the Vendor that could affect their ability to
    perform under any award made through RFP process? If yes, please explain
    both the circumstances and impact.
                                                                 Yes         No

12. Please provide a brief overview of the Vendor’s history and relevant experience.


13. How will the City of Duluth benefit from the proposed solution?


14. What additional value can the Vendor provide over its competition?
                                    Page 10 of 14
ATTACHMENT C – DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES

1.   Provide a statement of the project approach, any unique benefits, and other
     considerations.
2.   Provide an estimate of the earliest start date following execution of a contract.
3.   Submit a work plan with key dates and milestones. Response should include:
     3a. Identification of tasks to be performed by Vendor.
     3b. Identification of tasks to be performed by the City of Duluth.
     3c. Timeframes to complete performance of the identified tasks or expected
         timeframe in which the project would be completed.
     3d. Implementation strategy including transition plan if necessary.
4.   Provide summary resumes for proposed project team members or assigned staff,
     including their specific experiences with similar projects, qualifications and
     special expertise, and number of years with your company.




                                     Page 11 of 14
ATTACHMENT D – GENERAL TRAINING GUIDELINES

The Vendor shall provide for Administrative/Technical Support, Supervisor and End
User training. Training is defined as those hours specifically set aside for the sole
purpose of training and not time spent providing instructions to staff prior to final
inspection and acceptance.

The training should provide users with an understanding of how to best integrate and
configure the system, assist them with development of skills necessary to take full
advantage of the system’s functions and features, and provide them with a working
knowledge of the system as it relates to their daily job functions and the procedures of
the department.

The agenda of training should include, but not be limited to, installation and upgrades,
configuration, administration and maintenance of the system, system failure, backup
and recovery procedures, data and program backup procedures, understanding the
elements of each application and how it relates to the total system, integration between
systems, basic and advanced use of each application of the software, etc.

Vendor should include in the cost proposal all training that will be offered as part of the
total bid inclusive of all travel and per diem expenses and/or fees. Vendor should
include on-site instructors, instructional materials, guides, training aids or workbooks,
sample techniques, etc. If a “train the trainer” concept is proposed, please also provide
cost options for complete on-site training, if available.

Vendors should keep the following parameters in mind when proposing a training
regimen:

   •   Training should be job specific to the needs of each of the Department areas or
       divisions. Specific areas could be defined as: IT Technical Support, Planning –
       Project Planning, Animal and Business Licensing, Rental Housing Licensing, Fire
       Prevention Permitting, Construction Services Permitting, Traffic Permitting,
       Residential Parking Permitting, Inspections Processing, Customer Portal,
       Revenue Collections Processing, Data and Statistical Reporting and Analysis,
       Administration and Support Data Entry and Retrieval.
   •   “Hands-on” training is the preferred method for the above areas
   •   Training should include a documentation of processes, including examples
   •   In order to expedite total overall Departmental training, any “train the trainer”
       sessions should include multiple staff.
   •   Specify a variety of cost, content, etc. of training sessions to allow the Department
       flexibility in selecting training options

Provide a detailed written description that explains how the training provided will satisfy
the needs of the City while adhering to the guidelines listed above.



                                       Page 12 of 14
ATTACHMENT E – PARTNER/SUB CONSULTANT CONTACT DATA

This section is for Vendors to enter information for any partners and associated vendors
they are recommending for the core products they are proposing. This also includes the
proposed peripheral hardware recommendations for the associated systems to support
the applications proposed.

While this may not be the final contractual list of providers, it must represent the
Vendors best representation of the final architecture as understood currently.

                             Prime Contractor Information:
                                                Information
            Vendor Name:
            Address:
            Address:
            Contact Name:
            Contact Title:
            Office Phone:
            Email:
            Comments:


                                      Other Vendor:
                                                Information
            Vendor Name:
            Address:
            Address:
            Contact Name:
            Contact Title:
            Office Phone:
            Email:
            Comments:




                                       Page 13 of 14
ATTACHMENT F – VENDOR REFERENCES

DETAIL REFERENCES - PLEASE LIST MINNESOTA AGENCIES THAT ARE ACTIVE SITES

REFERENCE (1):

Customer Name:

Address:
City:
State:
Zip:

Contact Name:
Telephone:
Fax:
E-Mail:

No. of Years Installed:


REFERENCE (2):

Customer Name:

Address:
City:
State:
Zip:

Contact Name:
Telephone:
Fax:
E-Mail:

No. of Years Installed:


REFERENCE (3):

Customer Name:

Address:
City:
State:
Zip:

Contact Name:
Telephone:
Fax:
E-Mail:

No. of Years Installed:




                                  Page 14 of 14
