   CONDITIONS GOVERNING REQUESTS FOR PROPOSALS
               AND INVITATIONS TO BID

1.0 GENERAL PROVISIONS:

1.1 A Request for Proposals (RFP) is used as a standard legal procurement document for
procurement of goods and services where the technical specifications or characteristics cannot be
precisely determined, or are of a complicated/specialized nature which requires significant input
from the supplier.

1.2 An Invitation to Bid (ITB) is used for the procurement of goods and services of standard and
firm specifications.

1.3 The RFP or ITB shall be governed by the terms and conditions of the cover letter of the
RFP/ITB; the Project Requirement/Statement Of Work and the Tender/Bid Form.

1.4 The United Nations reserves the right to modify or exclude any consideration, information or
requirement contained in the RFP/ITB, and to add new considerations, information or
requirements at any stage of the procurement process, including during negotiations with the
selected proposer.

1.5 It is understood that all specifications shall be construed in the sense that provides the best
execution of the contract.

1.6 Only the vendor to whom the RFP/ITB is addressed can submit a proposal. If the addressee
does not wish to participate in the bidding process, then the documents may be forwarded to a
third party, provided the prior written approval of the Purchase and Transportation Section (PTS)
of the United Nations Office at Geneva (UNOG) is obtained. The proposal submitted by a third
party company shall comply with all deadlines stipulated in the RFP/ITB.

2.0 SUBMISSIONS OF PROPOSALS:

Proposals must be submitted in the language(s) indicated in the cover letter of the RFP/ITB.
They must be submitted in three (3) copies in accordance with the specific instructions provided
in the cover letter of the RFP/ITB. Unnecessarily elaborate brochures or other additional
information are not encouraged.

3.0 TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS OF REQUIREMENT:

No changes, substitutions, or other alterations to the technical specifications of requirement
stipulated in the RFP/ITB will be accepted unless approved in writing by the United Nations.

4.0 NO COMMITMENT:

The RFP/ITB contains no contractual offer of any kind. Any proposal submitted will be regarded
as an offer made by the proposer and not as an acceptance by the proposer of the offer made by
the United Nations. No contractual relationship will exist except pursuant to a written contract
document signed by the United Nations duly authorized official of the PTS and by the selected
proposer. The RFP/ITB does not commit the United Nations to consider any proposal, to award a
contract or to pay any costs incurred in the submission of the proposal, or costs incurred in
making necessary studies for the preparation thereof.
General Conditions to submit.doc                                                              1
5.0 CRITERIA FOR EVALUATION:

5.1 All proposals will be evaluated in accordance with the provisions of the United Nations
Financial Regulations and Rules as well as the requirements of the RFP/ITB.

5.2 In the case of RFP the evaluation procedure will consist of a formal, substantive and financial
assessment of the proposals received. Price is an important factor; however, it is not the only
consideration in evaluating responses to the RFP. Detailed evaluation leading to a final selection
or award may take several weeks.

6.0 PRICES AND TERMS OF CONTRACT:

6.1 The price quotes shall only be specified in the currency indicated in the RFP/ITB, free of any
tax (such as VAT) and duty. Prices shall be final and not subject to revision from the time of
entering into force of the contract until the end of contractual obligations.

6.2 The prices referred to above shall include any necessary service to be provided by the
selected proposer (even if such services are not expressly enumerated) in order to ensure a
satisfactory fulfillment of the contract, as well as any other expenses incurred by the selected
proposer, e.g. travel, accommodation, daily subsistence, telecommunication, postal charges.

6.3 In no case may the selected proposer invoke a hiatus or an oversight in the description of the
work components in the tender documents or claim inadequate explanations for seeking any
price increase or any release from contractual liabilities.

7.0 PAYMENTS TERMS:

The Financial Regulations of the United Nations preclude advance payments and payments by
letter of credit. Such provisions in a proposal will be prejudicial to its evaluation by the United
Nations. The United Nations standard payment terms are 60 days (or similar discounted payment
terms if offered by the proposer) upon receipt of invoices subsequent to satisfactory delivery of
goods and acceptance thereof by the United Nations. Proposers must clearly specify in their
proposal the payment terms being offered.

8.0 GSA Clause (for USA vendors only)

It has been officially established that the United Nations is eligible under the United States
Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 to receive full benefits under General Services Administration
(GSA) Contracts. Accordingly, all proposals must specify whether or not items quoted by the
bidder are currently subject to GSA Federal Supply pricing and indicate the GSA Contract
Number and Expiration Date, wherever applicable.

9.0 VALIDITY OF PROPOSALS:

Bids/Proposals shall remain open and valid for no less than ninety (90) days from the date of
opening specified in the RFP/ITB.

10.0 REJECTION OF PROPOSALS AND SPLIT AWARDS:

10.1 The United Nations reserves the right to accept or reject any or all proposals received in
response to the RFP/ITB, to request either wholly or in part new proposals, or to negotiate with
General Conditions to submit.doc                                                               2
any proposer considered qualified in any manner deemed to be in the best interest of the United
Nations. Bids/Proposals may be rejected if they, inter alia:

        (i)       are received after the deadline stipulated in the RFP/ITB;
        (ii)      are not properly marked or addressed as required in the RFP/ITB;
        (iii)     are delivered to another United Nations office location than the one required in the
                  RFP/ITB;
        (iv)      are transmitted by facsimile without express written permission by PTS;
        (v)       are unsolicited;
        (vi)      contain an alternate proposal, unless specifically requested; or
        (vii)     are not otherwise in compliance with the RFP/ITB.

10.2 The United Nations reserves the right to award more than one contract (non-exclusivity) or
to enter into a negotiated contract, and it may not necessarily accept the lowest or any particular
proposal, nor disclose the reasons for the rejection. The United Nations reserves the right to split
awards in any combination as it may deem appropriate. If the proposal is submitted on a «all or
none» basis, it should clearly state so.

11.0 WITHDRAWAL AND MODIFICATION OF BIDS/PROPOSALS:

Bids/Proposals may be modified or withdrawn in writing, prior to the fixed time for opening
specified therein. Bids/Proposals may not be modified or withdrawn after that time.

12.0 ERRORS IN PROPOSALS:

Bidders/Proposers or their authorized agents are expected to examine any maps, drawings,
specifications, circulars, schedules, and other instructions pertaining to the work, made available
by the United Nations to the proposers for inspection. Failure to do so will be at the proposer’s
own risk. In case of error in the totaling of prices, the unit price will govern.

13.0 PUBLIC OPENING:

Public opening of tenders will take place at the address and time specified in the cover letter of
each specific RFP or ITB. Bidders/Proposers may send one representative with the proper
authorization to observe the public opening.

14.0 CONFIDENTIALITY:

The RFP/ITB or any part thereof, and all copies thereof must be returned to the United Nations
upon request. It is understood that the RFP/ITB is confidential and proprietary to the United
Nations, contains privileged information, part of which may be copyrighted, and is
communicated and received by you on the condition that no part thereof, or any information
concerning it may be copied, exhibited, or furnished to others without the prior written consent
of the United Nations, except that you may exhibit the specifications to your prospective
subcontractors for the sole purpose of obtaining offers from them. Notwithstanding the other
provisions of the RFP/ITB, recipients of the RFP/ITB will be bound by the contents of this
paragraph whether or not they submit a proposal or respond in any other way to this RFP/ITB.

15.0 QUERIES:

Instructions on making written inquiries on this RFP/ITB are provided in the cover letter.

General Conditions to submit.doc                                                                    3
16.0 CONTRACT:

Any contract resulting from this RFP/ITB will include the United Nations General Conditions of
the United Nations Purchase Order or the United Nations General Conditions for General
Contracts, as applicable.

Note: Vendors and service providers are informed that the United Nations Office at Geneva is a
nonsmoking environment. It is, therefore, prohibited to smoke within the compound of the Office
as well as its Annexes, with the exception of indicated zones.




General Conditions to submit.doc                                                             4
