         546 NW University Blvd, Suite 201
              Port St. Lucie, FL 34986




         REQUEST FOR PROPOSAL
Children’s Services Council of St. Lucie County




  Enterprise Application Software Solutions
VERSION        REVISION DATE       DESCRIPTION


      1.0            04 FEB 2020   Original RFP document


          --              --                                          --




                                                 Children’s Services Council of St. Lucie County | 2
Section 01 - Executive Summary ............................................................................................................ 4

Section 02 – About CSCSLC ..................................................................................................................... 7

Section 03 – Proposed Solution and Preliminary Requirements ......................................................... 14

Section 04 - Proposal Guidelines .......................................................................................................... 17

Section 06 - Proposal Format ............................................................................................................... 22

Appendix A – IS Map ............................................................................................................................ 24

Appendix B – Preliminary Requirements.............................................................................................. 25

Appendix C – Glossary of Terms ........................................................................................................... 44




                                                                      Children’s Services Council of St. Lucie County | 3
Section 01 - Executive Summary

This section provides an overview of the project definition and the goals of Children’s Services Council of
St. Lucie County, hereinafter referred to as “CSCSLC”.


Project Definition

This RFP announces CSCSLC’s intent to procure core enterprise application systems for the purpose of
replacing or enhancing existing systems which have been outgrown. CSCSLC intends on establishing
strategic integrations between multiple systems of record and maturing the information systems
strategies to gain both process efficiency and data analysis capabilities. The purpose of this RFP is to
solicit proposals from qualified vendors who can demonstrate value in building a long-term relationship
with both CSCSLC and other partners serving CSCSLC’s enterprise application needs.

CSCSLC intends on evaluating both comprehensive solutions and multiple integrated solutions for
replacing its current accounting software with an enterprise resource planning (ERP) solution, replacing
or enhancing its current grants management software with a comprehensive solution for supporting the
functions of the Programs department, and introducing an integrated customer relationship
management (CRM) solution.

CSCSLC intends on selecting a solution or multiple solutions that will allow for integration between
various data sets across all systems of record. CSCSLC will contract with multiple solution providers, if
necessary, to ensure the appropriate information systems solutions are in place to support the business
needs of all stakeholders.

Specifically, CSCSLC is seeking proposals from qualified vendors to provide an ERP solution, a
comprehensive Programs department solution, and a CRM.

Proposal cost estimates should be comprehensive and include:
    (1) software cost and software user license cost
    (2) annual software maintenance cost, hosting & cloud service estimates (if applicable)
    (3) the cost of including a “test”, “play”, or “development” environment, if possible
    (4) installation/implementation costs including travel expenses
    (5) data migration cost
    (6) application integrations cost estimates
    (7) training costs and post “go live” support costs
    (8) all other costs that will be incurred during the installation of the solution

The proposed solution or solutions can partially address the scope but must allow for full integration. It
is preferable for the solutions to be able to be fully integrated without extensive supplemental systems,
add-ons, or customization. CSCSLC intends on auditing current business processes to minimize any
system customizations and to utilize as many features of “out-of-the-box” solutions as possible.



                                                      Children’s Services Council of St. Lucie County | 4
The selected system or systems must meet the needs of the current organization and be scalable to grow
with CSCSLC as the organization evolves.

With consideration to CSCSLC’s annual budgeting process, the selected vendor or vendors should
provide options for implementing the system in multiple phases but also be prepared to engineer a full-
scope installation for a “go live” of October 1, 2021.

This RFP, leading to an acquisition phase, is being conducted as a competitive procurement process
whereby the vendor community is being asked to respond with the best solution, as a combination of
software solutions and services, to support CSCSLC’s strategic information systems direction. CSCSLC
has allocated a window of time before the selection process for the purpose of vendor interaction, as
CSCSLC anticipates this will be helpful for the collaborative engineering of a strategic solution.

The application modules that CSCSLC seeks to acquire and implement include:

    (1) Finance and Accounting
            a.   COA Maintenance
            b. General Ledger Entry and Posting
            c.   Budget
            d. Treasury/Bank Reconciliation
            e.   Financial Reporting
            f.   Accounts Payable & Accounts Receivable
            g.   Procurement & Purchase Orders
            h. Capital Assets
            i.   Payroll
            j.   Human Resources
    (2) Customer Relationship Management
            a.   Relationship Management
            b. Task/Opportunity Management
            c.   Stakeholder demographics
            d. Distribution & Other Groupings lists
    (3) Grant/Funds Management (Programs Department)
            a.   Grants Publication and Management
            b. Funds Management
            c.   Performance Measurement
            d. Agency (external stakeholder) portal
    (4) Decision Support
            a.   Budgeting
            b. Reporting
            c.   Analysis


                                                      Children’s Services Council of St. Lucie County | 5
Goals

CSCSLC’s primary objective is to implement core-system solutions and selected complementary
solutions with strategic integrations. The organization wishes to identify, procure, and implement a
replacement system or systems from a vendor or vendors with a proven track record, a well-equipped
staff, and a reputation for customer service. Specific project goals include the following:

   •    Acquire a solution or solutions that supports CSCSLC’s immediate plans for information systems
        integration and near-term plans for electronic data exchange with external stakeholders.
   •    Acquire a platform or platforms that will allow CSCSLC to collect aggregated program-level data
        and eventually include the collection of individual client-level data.
   •    Integrate business processes/systems and eliminate manual/redundant entry of information.
   •    Acquire and implement a software solution that meets CSCSLC’s needs using as much “off-the-
        shelf” or “out-of-the-box” functionality as possible.
   •    Support the current business process needs of the primary functions within each department
   •    Replace aging software system functionality.
   •    Establish the foundation for future reporting, analysis and budgeting needs.
   •    Ensure all stakeholder classes have ready access to accurate and timely information to improve
        operational productivity and customer service.
   •    Enhance functionality to provide more efficient and effective reporting in all areas of the business.
   •    Implement a stable and inter-connected set of systems capable of accommodating both internal
        stakeholder and external stakeholder needs.
   •    Acquire a well-supported system from a reliable vendor/partner with adequate resources to
        support, upgrade, and maintain the package over the long-term.
   •    Acquire a system with robust architecture that has capability to effectively and efficiently
        integrate with other vendor solutions.
   •    Partner with a software solution provider who can architect and provide a flexible and phased
        implementation approach.
   •    Improve stakeholder collaboration and build good inter-department processes, for example, the
        budgeting process.
   •    Either strategically migrate or archive the historic record of transactions currently maintained in
        multiple applications serving as systems of record.




                                                      Children’s Services Council of St. Lucie County | 6
Section 02 – About CSCSLC

This section provides an overview of Children’s Services Council of St. Lucie County, CSCSLC.


Organization Background

Children’s Services Council of St. Lucie County, CSCSLC, is an organization based in Port St. Lucie, FL,
with the mission to improve the quality of life for all children in St. Lucie County. A Children's Services
Council (CSC) is a countywide special-purpose government, created by ordinance – and approved by
local voters – to fund programs and services that improve the lives of children and their families.


To date, nine Florida counties have created CSCs that invest property tax dollars in the well-being of
their community’s children and families. While the services offered and age groups served vary
depending on each community’s needs, the primary focus of all CSCs is to invest in prevention and early
intervention programs that produce measurable results.


The Children’s Services Council of St. Lucie County was established in 1990 after the Juvenile Welfare
Services Act was passed by the Florida Legislature and signed by the Governor in 1986 (Florida Statutes
125.901). This enabling legislation provided that any county in Florida, whose voters agreed through
referendum, could create a special taxing district for children’s services with a governing board and the
authority to levy ad valorem taxes.


St. Lucie County Ordinance No. 90-41 provides for the creation of an Independent Special District to
provide funding for children's services throughout St. Lucie County. This special district, by ordinance,
was approved on October 2, 1990, and named the Children's Services Council of St. Lucie County.


As mandated by Florida Statute and County Ordinance, the Council is made up of ten members. Five of
these members are ex officio (meaning "from the office") and serve by virtue of office or position and
five of these members are appointed by the governor. Ex Officio Members include:
    •   County Commissioner
    •   District Administrator (or designee) of Department of Children and Families
    •   Juvenile Judge
    •   School Board Member
    •   Superintendent of Schools
    •   Governor Appointed Members, appointed by the sitting Governor, serve a four-year term



                                                       Children’s Services Council of St. Lucie County | 7
Taxing Authority is provided for by statute and ordinance and allows the levy of up to .50 mills in
property taxes. The ten-member Council has decision making authority over the programs to be funded,
setting millage rates, and approving the budget. The cost to a local property owner to pay .50 mills
would be 50 cents for every $1,000 of taxable property.


CSCSLC Facility

CSCSLC currently has one location in Port St. Lucie, FL which includes both office and meeting space for
all 11 staff members along with a training facility. The onsite training facility is well-equipped with three
projectors, three screens, and an IP-based system in place for visitors to connect devices.


Current Technology Environment

CSCSLC currently uses e-CImpact as an application solution for the Programs Department. The application
is a cloud-based grants management system that provides proposal application development from design
through quarterly reporting; data storage of current and historical operations. CSCSLC has 5-6 internal
users and 32 external users at outside agencies operating 48 individual programs. The external users
connect through a hosted online portal operated and maintained by Seabrooks.

CSCSLC uses an on-premise QuickBooks application for the Accounting Department. The application is
self hosted and provides 3 user licenses.

CSCSLC uses Civic-Plus as a content management system for its website application. It maintains a 3 user
administration license for posting information, announcements, communications, inquiries from the
community

CSCSLC maintains a Microsoft Office 365 subscription for all internal users. The 11-users license includes
Word, Outlook, Excel, Edge/Internet Explorer, PowerPoint, OneNote, and Access. CSCSLC also has 3
Microsoft Visio licenses.

CSCSLC maintains 2 on premise servers running Windows Server 2008, 2012, & Small Business Server.
The primary server with 32GB memory and 1 TB storage handles primary networking operations, active
directory, internet communications, and serves as a document repository/data storage unit. The Fiscal
server handles QuickBooks 3 User operation and is a document repository/data storage for Fiscal
department. Veritas BackUp Exec is used for data backup & recovery using 1TB removable drive and a 3
TB Seagate external storage. Office 365 data is stored in the cloud-based system. CSCSLC will be upgrading
the primary server to Windows Server 2016 and will be adding more memory and virtual machine
capabilities to sync local premise and cloud backups for better recovery options.

CSCSLC has 11 desktop computers, 6 Surface Pro 4 computers, and 8 iPads for daily user operations. 2
networked Toshiba MFP copier/scanner/fax machines and 2 networked HP color laser printers are used
by 11 staff members.


                                                      Children’s Services Council of St. Lucie County | 8
A Fortinet hardwired firewall is in use between the local network and the internet. Both an internal
wireless network and a guest wireless network are available.

CSCSLC’s Internet connection is provided by Comcast – Business Internet Bundle 300 MB download with
5 static IPs, 1 voice line, and basic cable tv. A VOIP phone system is in use. CSCSLC is currently exploring
the addition of an AT&T circuit for load balancing & service redundancy when Comcast is down.

CSCSLC currently contracts with two managed service providers. At Treasure Coast IT Solutions, TCIT,
Joseph Jones serves as the primary IT services quarterback, providing proactive system monitoring and
making recommendations for system improvements. At CareerSource Research Coast, Martin Rivera
provides IT support and services for short-term projects under TCIT Solutions direction.




                                                      Children’s Services Council of St. Lucie County | 9
Stakeholder Information

All 11 CSCSLC staff members will utilize the new core-system applications defined by their roles within
the different departments:

    •   Accounting/Finance (includes Human Resources)
    •   Programs
    •   Outreach/Engagement
    •   Office Management

All external agencies that apply for funding through CSCSLC are expected to use the new core-system
applications, particularly those applications maintained for the sake of information exchange via an
established agency “portal”. Currently, there are approximately 55 agencies that apply for funding each
year. Out of those applicants, approximately 40 agencies receive funding. The number of agencies
applying for funding increases by 5-7 each year.

Agencies request funding for the services offered to the community, which are referred to as
“programs”. Of the approximately 40 agencies that receive funding each year, there are approximately
48-50 programs that are funded. Most times, an agency will run a single program. There are agencies
that run multiple programs. There are a few programs that are managed by multiple agencies; in these
instances, CSCLSC will provide funding to a designated primary agency.

As mandated by Florida Statute and County Ordinance, CSCSLC is governed by a Council of appointed
officials. The Council is made up of 10 members. These members are expected to use the new core-system
solutions, particularly those solutions utilized to exchange information via the established and maintained
agency “portal”.




                                                     Children’s Services Council of St. Lucie County | 10
Project Team
For the project that results from the awarded contract or contracts, all CSCSLC staff members will be
involved in some capacity, but some more than others. CSCSLC will engage with an independent
consultant who will act as a project manager in cooperation with the vendor/vendors project managers.
The names of the project team members are listed below:




               NAME          BUSINESS TITLE, ORGANIZATION                    PROJECT ROLE

           Boyle, Sean       Executive Director, CSCSLC                      Project Sponsor

         Jefferson, Thomas   Director of Finance & HR, CSCSLC                Project Lead

            Hokaj, Larry     Independent Consultant                          Project Manager

            Dwyer, Jim       Director of Programming, CSCSLC                 Programs Dept Lead

           Mock, Ashley      Director of Community Engagement, CSCSLC        Subject Matter Expert

        Andreacchio, Tonya   Capacity Building Coordinator, CSCSLC           Subject Matter Expert

            Mack, Sandy      Program Specialist, CSCSLC                      Subject Matter Expert

            Elviro, Jessy    Fiscal Specialist, CSCSLC                       Subject Matter Expert

          O’Connell, Xerox   Fiscal & HR Specialist, CSCSLC                  Subject Matter Expert

            Cesar, John      Community Engagement Coordinator, CSCSLC        Subject Matter Expert

           Rivera, Paula     Office Manager, CSCSLC                          Subject Matter Expert

            Torres, Dee      Administrative Assistant, CSCSLC                Subject Matter Expert

                 --          --                                              --



CSCSLC Council
For the proposed solution evaluation and the contract award, no steering committee will participate.
However, the CSCSLC project lead will be responsible for reporting progress on a monthly basis to the
CSCSLC Council. Council members need “view” access to agency funding requests, board packets, and
other documents as determined by the Executive Director. In addition, designated members of
Council need access to the ERP solution for approving expenses.




                                                      Children’s Services Council of St. Lucie County | 11
Core Team
The CSCSLC Core Team members will be the CSCSLC staff members who will be primarily engaged
with the proposed solution providers and who will be formulating the solution recommendation. The
Core Team will be made up of the following members:


              NAME            BUSINESS TITLE, ORGANIZATION                 PROJECT ROLE

          Boyle, Sean         Executive Director, CSCSLC                   Project Sponsor

        Jefferson, Thomas     Director of Finance & HR, CSCSLC             Project Lead

           Dwyer, Jim         Director of Programming, CSCSLC              Programs Dept Lead

        Andreacchio, Tonya    Capacity Building Coordinator, CSCSLC        Subject Matter Expert

          Mock, Ashley        Director of Community Engagement, CSCSLC     Subject Matter Expert

                --            --                                           --



Extended Core Team
The remaining CSCSLC staff members will be part of the extended core team who will assist in
formulating a recommendation. The Extended Core Team is made up of the following members:


             NAME            BUSINESS TITLE, ORGANIZATION                  PROJECT ROLE

          Mack, Sandy        Program Specialist, CSCSLC                    Subject Matter Expert

          Elviro, Jessy      Fiscal & HR Specialist, CSCSLC                Subject Matter Expert

        O’Connell, Xerox     Fiscal & HR Specialist, CSCSLC                Subject Matter Expert

           Cesar, John       Community Engagement Coordinator, CSCSLC      Subject Matter Expert

          Rivera, Paula      Office Manager, CSCSLC                        Subject Matter Expert

           Torres, Dee       Administrative Assistant, CSCSLC              Subject Matter Expert

               --            --                                            --




                                                      Children’s Services Council of St. Lucie County | 12
RFP Evaluation/Decision Team
The CSCSLC staff members who are responsible for the final contact award recommendation to the
board include:



              NAME           BUSINESS TITLE, ORGANIZATION              PROJECT ROLE

          Boyle, Sean        Executive Director, CSCSLC                Project Sponsor

         Jefferson, Thomas   Director of Finance & HR, CSCSLC          Project Lead

            Dwyer, Jim       Director of Programming, CSCSLC           Programs Dept Lead

                --           --                                        --




                                                  Children’s Services Council of St. Lucie County | 13
Section 03 – Proposed Solution and Preliminary Requirements

This section provides an overview of CSCSLC’s vision for a comprehensive solution and an overview of
the solution requirements that have been explored by the CSCSLC project team.

    •   Description of technology direction, envisioned application solutions
    •   Description of “full scope” and “partial scope” solutions
    •   Vision for eventual technology environment
    •   Requirements: reference appendix and frame CSCSLC requirements gathering process
    •   Described desired vendor requirements gathering
    •   Reference Appendix A, Future State IS Map

Describing CSCSLC’s Approach

Anticipating and encouraging a formal requirements gathering process, CSCLSC has completed early
work in identifying and documenting solution requirements. It is important to note that the resulting
requirements list, included in Appendix B, is not exhaustive. Rather, it’s an early-compiled list to
facilitate a more complete requirements conversation during the RFP process.

The CSCSLC Core Team has worked to understand how future enterprise application solution(s) might
be architected. Many ideas about an ideal enterprise application environment were discussed.

To organize these ideas and align early efforts with the yet-to-be understood methodologies of the
chosen vendor or vendors, the team assumed the following solution development phases:

    •   Discovery – preliminary analysis of the problem, identification of the opportunities, and
        documenting project objectives.

    •   Requirements Gathering – collecting system conditions and capabilities needed by CSCSLC
        stakeholders to solve problems or create a more efficient workflow.

    •   Design – draft architecture of the future enterprise application solution so that details about
        desired features and operations can be described in detail.

    •   Development –production of the environment that will eventually serve as the final enterprise
        application solution.

    •   Testing/Evaluation –stakeholders assess the quality and functionality of the proposed solution.

    •   Training –CSCSLC stakeholders instructed on the proper utilization of the solution.

    •   Rollout/Go Live – the successful completion of the solution implementation and integration.




                                                     Children’s Services Council of St. Lucie County | 14
In developing the Request for Proposal (RFP) document, the CSCSLC Core Team made a conscious effort
to concentrate output for both Discovery and Requirements Gathering, while occasionally structuring
ideas and concepts for a potential integration design phase.


Technology Direction

CSCSLC intends on investing in enterprise application solutions and technology systems which allow for
interconnectivity of the data sets and the “systems of record”. The organization leadership wants to
better utilize technology to serve all stakeholders by means of secure accessibility, accurate and
streamlined data sets, efficient reporting, and streamlined processes.


Proposed Solutions and Partial Scope

CSCSLC expects that any one vendor-proposed solution may only address a portion the scope of the
comprehensive enterprise application solution. The RFP Evaluation/Decision Team is prepared to
engage and contract with multiple vendors for the sake of building a comprehensive solution.

Should any one vendor-proposed solution address a portion of the scope, the vendor should be prepared
to present its ability to integrate the proposed solution with other solutions which fill the solution gap.


Envisioned Enterprise Application Environment

CSCSLC expects that a long-term enterprise application environment will be established after the
contract award and the pursuant application implementation.

In Appendix A “IS Map”, CSCSLC has provided a possible future-state information systems map that
details the envisioned enterprise application environment. Central on the map is what CSCSLC considers
to be “core systems” that will provide core functionality for the business that CSCSLC conducts. It is
those core systems that are in scope for this current RFP and contract award process.

On the sides of the map are what CSCSLC considers to be “secondary systems”, those system that
provide important functionality for the business that CSCSLC conducts but may not necessarily be in
scope for this current RFP and contract award process. However, consideration for inclusion will be
given to those secondary systems as the core systems are being evaluated and selected.


Preliminary Requirements

For the sake of eliciting accurate cost estimates, CSCSLC staff explored the organization’s enterprise
application needs. This early exploration resulted in the development of a preliminary requirements list,
included in this RFP in Appendix B “Preliminary Requirements”.




                                                     Children’s Services Council of St. Lucie County | 15
The requirements gathering process executed by CSCSLC and the resulting requirements should be
considered as preliminary and not complete. CSCSLC expects contract-awarded vendors to complete a
comprehensive requirements gathering process pursuant to their standard process.


Expected Scope of Services

CSCSLC expects the scope of services to include systems architecture services, requirements gathering
services, project planning services, project management services, training services, quality assurance
services, cutover support, post go-live support, and ongoing support services.




                                                    Children’s Services Council of St. Lucie County | 16
Section 04 - Proposal Guidelines

The proposal guidelines are intended to provide a basis for evaluating each respondent on an equivalent
basis.

A vendor submitting a response to this RFP agrees to all proposal guidelines contained herein. All
materials submitted in response to the RFP shall become the property of CSCSLC.

This section is provided as guidance to vendors in submitting their proposals. CSCSLC reserves the right
to amend the process as appropriate to most effectively manage the acquisition process. The proposal
guidelines are presented below.


Schedule of Activities

The following planned schedule for the selection process leads into CSCSLC’s procurement and
budgeting schedules. CSCSLC is asking vendors to review the entire schedule and make every effort
possible to comply with the scheduled dates.

All things being equal, preference will be given to vendors who are able to deliver on the dates listed
below. Information will be received and evaluated according to the following tentative schedule:

            ACTIVITY                                                     DATE(S)

       1.   Distribution of RFP                                        Feb 4-21, 2020
       2.   Vendor notice of Intent to Respond                        by Feb 28, 2020
       3.   Deadline to receive written questions                     by Feb 28, 2020
       4.   Final distribution of question responses                    Mar 6, 2020
       5.   Vendor visits and demonstrations                  Mar 9, 2020 through Apr 24, 2020
       6.   Proposals due                                               May 1, 2020
       7.   Vendor reference/client visits                            by May 29, 2020
       8.   Final vendor or vendors selected                            July 1, 2020
       9.   Contract execution                                        by Oct 15, 2020


Notice of Intent to Respond

The vendor is required to provide a “Notice of Intent to Respond,” to be received no later than Friday,
February 28, 2020. The “Notice of Intent to Respond” must be submitted through e-mail to both
tjefferson@cscslc.org and sboyle@cscslc.org.




                                                       Children’s Services Council of St. Lucie County | 17
Submission of Proposal

The vendor proposal must be received at the address below no later than May 1, 2020 at 4:00 p.m. EST.

Vendors should allow normal mail delivery time to ensure timely delivery of the proposals.

The vendor must submit one electronic copy of the full proposal via e-mail to both tjefferson@cscslc.org
and sboyle@cscslc.org, and one hard copy of the full proposal via mail to:

        Children’s Services Council of St. Lucie County
        546 NW University Boulevard, Suite 201
        Port St. Lucie, FL 34986
        Attn: Thomas Jefferson

The hard copy should contain an official ink signature and be marked “Original.” The proposal shall be
clearly marked on the outside of the transmittal package with the following information:

Vendor Name
Software Name/Version
CSCSLC
Response to Request for Proposal for Enterprise Applications


Multiple Proposals

Should a vendor identify the opportunity to outline different strategies through the utilization of a
combination of different solutions, or should a vendor wish to offer multiple solutions with different
scopes, multiple proposals from the same vendor will be accepted.


Requests for Clarification

Questions and other requests for clarification concerning this RFP should be submitted via e-mail and
must be received no later than February 28, 2020. Questions should be directed to tjefferson@cscslc.org.

If a vendor prefers to discuss questions via a conference call or web meeting session, the request for the
conference call or web meeting session should be directed to tjefferson@cscslc.org and must be received
no later than February 28, 2020.


Proposal Cost

All costs incurred in the preparation and presentation of the proposal shall be absorbed by the party
responding to this Request for Proposal. Requests for specific material to be returned will be considered.
Any confidential material submitted must be clearly marked as “Confidential.”



                                                     Children’s Services Council of St. Lucie County | 18
Withdrawal of Proposal

Proposals may be withdrawn before and after the proposal submittal deadline by submitting a written
request to tjefferson@cscslc.org. Resubmittal before the proposal submittal deadline can be made;
however, nothing may be resubmitted after the deadline.


References

CSCSLC intends to contact references for leading candidates. The vendor should provide at least three
comparable customer references that are similar in nature to CSCSLC in terms of proposed hardware,
operating system, database platform, user count, services, and project size. References are expected to
have working environments comparable to CSCSLC’s environment (enterprise application solution, user
count, services, project size, organization size, project complexity, etc.).

Prior to the final vendor selection, CSCSLC may request an on-site review of a referenced implemented
solution. References, businesses, and other users may be contacted for additional verbal communication
or written information, and possibly for on-site visits.




Written Contracts

CSCSLC and the selected vendor or vendors shall negotiate both a software license and service and
support contracts. Nothing shall be binding on either party until the contract is in writing and signed by
both parties, except that the vendor is obligated to keep its proposal in effect for a minimum of 180 days
from the proposal’s due date.

The award vendor or vendors will be required to assume responsibility for delivery and implementation
of the system as defined in the contract. The vendor may also be required to demonstrate that it holds all
licenses, permits, and authorizations necessary to provide all proposed products and services. If new or
improved versions of products are released at any time prior to the implementation of the products,
CSCSLC may negotiate for those products at a comparable price.

The vendor’s proposal and submitted materials, implementation plan and schedule, and recommended
hardware specifications, along with this original RFP, shall become part of any contract negotiated with
the successful vendor.

It should be noted that CSCSLC will not pay or reimburse any vendor for any costs incurred by the
vendor prior to the signing of the software license and the service and support contracts.




                                                     Children’s Services Council of St. Lucie County | 19
Solution Demonstrations

CSCSLC estimates a minimum of three vendors will be selected to provide demonstrations. The finalists
will be contacted by CSCSLC to schedule individual demonstrations. Each demonstration will take place
at CSCSLC’s facility in Port St. Lucie, FL.

Prior to the demonstrations, finalists will be provided a suggested demonstration script. Vendor
representatives possessing expert knowledge of the product functionality and implementation services
are expected to conduct the demonstration.

To conduct a comprehensive demonstration of all solution functionality, CSCSLC anticipates dedicating
one full business day for each software vendor demonstration. The software demonstration will include
the participation of CSCSLC’s Core Team and Extended Core Team who will be responsible for evaluating
the systems capabilities across the appropriate functional areas.

Vendors invited to provide software demonstrations will be provided an overall schedule in addition to
suggested demonstration scripts that describe the functionality under review. Some adjustments may
occur during the demonstrations to accommodate discussions and questions. CSCSLC will schedule
process owners to come and go during the demonstrations according to the subject matter.




Experience and Qualifications

Any information provided to CSCSLC regarding vendor experience and qualifications will be taken into
consideration during the bid review process. This information can include:

  • A brief description and history of the partner organization.
  • Copies of business licenses, professional certifications or any other relevant credentials.
  • A general description of similar accounts serviced by the vendor.
  • Qualifications, background and experience of any project director and/or other vendor staff who
    might be assigned to maintain service on the CSCSLC account.
  • References with contact information from organizations that have used the vendor for similar
    services within the last 12-18 months.
  • A general description of the techniques, approaches and methods to be used in completing the
    software development life cycle (SDLC).
  • Project management methods.




                                                     Children’s Services Council of St. Lucie County | 20
Contract Terms

CSCSLC will negotiate contract terms upon selection, and in the process the organization staff may
access legal counsel. An agreement will be awarded upon signing of a Service Level Agreement (SLA),
Scope of Work (SOW) statement, or contract, which should outline terms, scope, service inclusions, and
expected expenses.

A confidentiality clause should be included within the contract or a separate confidentiality agreement
should be included for execution by both parties.

Your organization’s position on intellectual property rights should be included within the contract or a
separate intellectual property rights statement should be included for execution by both parties.




Liabilities of CSCSLC

This RFP is only an invitation for proposal and no contractual obligation on behalf of CSCSLC whatsoever
shall arise from the RFP process unless and until a formal contract is signed between CSCSLC and the
vendor.

This RFP does not commit CSCSLC to pay any cost incurred in the preparation or submission of any
proposal or to procure or contract for any services.

CSCSLC reserves the right to accept or reject any and all proposals, to revise the RFP, to request one or
more re-submissions or clarification from one or more vendors or to cancel the process in part or whole.
No vendor is obligated to respond to or to continue to respond to the RFP after the submission and
closing date.

CSCSLC will, at its discretion, award the contract to the responsible vendor submitting the best proposal
that complies with the RFP. CSCSLC may, at its sole discretion, reject any or all proposals received or
waive minor defects, irregularities, or informalities therein.




                                                     Children’s Services Council of St. Lucie County | 21
Section 06 - Proposal Format

Proposal Content

The proposal should be presented in a clear, comprehensive, and concise manner. Any exceptions to a
requirement or an item in the solicitation must be clearly set out and fully explained in the submittal. Be
specific as to the reasons for exceptions.

A corporate official, owner, or person who has been authorized to commit the vendor and negotiate a
contract with CSCSLC must sign the proposal. The proposal should include a comprehensive description
of the company, including years in business, locations, staffing levels, and years of experience
implementing the proposed solution.

The proposal should identify the specific members of the project team to be assigned, describe the
expertise of individual members, define the team structure, outline prior relevant experience, and
present the way the project is to be managed.

The proposal should include descriptions of the methodologies planned to be utilized, specifically as it
relates to project management, requirements gathering, training, data migration, and post “go live”
customer support.

The proposal should include a description of the training materials, the self-help resources, and the
support agreement that will be available to CSCSLC both during the implementation and after the “go
live” is successfully completed.

The proposal should include cost proposals in a standard format. This includes costs for application
software, implementation and related services, training, other costs, and annual maintenance. Vendors
should also provide estimated costs for migrating data up to the last five years. The cost section should
include the number of solution user licenses included to generate the estimates and specify the user
type (concurrent, named, etc.) and permission level (view only, admin, standard, etc.).

Additional technical information may be required to support the proposal submitted by vendors. The
vendor will be contacted if such information becomes necessary.




                                                     Children’s Services Council of St. Lucie County | 22
Evaluations

The following categories and evaluation criteria will be considered during scoring:

     • Vendor Profile: Organization structure, business philosophy, revenues, profitability,
       government project experience, expertise, location, response time, presentation,
       communication, implementation process, service, support, training, stability, and references.
     • Software Applications: Meeting specifications, integration, flexibility, ease of use, and
       preliminary requirements included in this RFP.
     • Technology Platform: Use of industry standards, operating platforms, servers, workstations,
       database architecture, communication protocols, integration capabilities, growth, and
       expandability.
     • Implementation Services: Propose a team that is experienced with the product, the industry,
       similarly-sized and operated organizations, history of on-time and on-budget implementations,
       and responsiveness to client requirements.
     • Training Services: Propose a team that is experienced with training unsophisticated users
       regarding the product and its functionality to maximize training investment, and has a history of
       responsiveness to client questions and requests.
     • Cost: Hardware components, software applications, implementation consultation, data
       conversion, customization, support, training, other costs, and annual maintenance.
     • Proposal Format: Adherence to proposal guidelines and requirements.

CSCSLC reserves the right to reject any and all responses received as a result of this RFP, or to negotiate
separately with any source whatsoever in any manner.

CSCSLC’s objective is to choose reliable and experienced vendors capable of providing an effective
solution within a reasonable budget and time frame. The same criteria will be used to evaluate the new
information provided by the finalists after demonstrations are completed.

Multiple vendors may be selected. CSCSLC will work with the finalists to negotiate a purchase and
support contract




                                                      Children’s Services Council of St. Lucie County | 23
Appendix A – IS Map




                      Children’s Services Council of St. Lucie County | 24
Appendix B – Preliminary Requirements




       FEATURES LIST
                                                                             AVAILABLE          VIA             VIA
                                                                            OUT-OF-BOX?   CONFIGURATION?   CUSTOMIZATION?

                                                                              YES/NO          YES/NO          YES/NO

TECHNICAL
  Allow reports to be produced in multiple formats (e.g., Excel and PDF).

  Provide integration and import/export to Microsoft Office products.

  Provide integration with document management systems. Scan and
  attach documents, scanned images and MS Office files to records
  throughout all modules.
  Provide robust user interface for managing transaction and master file
  imports and exports in multiple file formats.
  Support report distribution (ideally web-based) without incurring
  additional license fees, including access security.
  Able to schedule reports to run at pre-defined time of the day.

  Support e-mailing scheduled reports or links to the previously run
  reports.
  Provide secure remote accessibility via the Internet, VPN, Citrix, etc.

  Require strong passwords to be set at a minimum length and
  complexity.
  Provide a full transactional audit trail.

  Provide an interface for loading and extracting data to and from other
  systems (e.g., using ODBC, API calls, web services, etc.).
  Able to be hosted by a third party.

  Leverage Active Directory for user authentication.

  Support automatic forced password expiration and changes to user
  passwords at specific time intervals (e.g., 90-day expirations).
  Support multiple system instances/environments (e.g., test, QA, and
  production).
  Provide automated system archiving, purging, and backups.

  --                                                                            --              --               --


GENERAL FUNCTIONALITY
  Provide robust online documentation and user manuals.

  Provide complete drill-down and drill-across capabilities between the
  modules and transactions in the system (e.g., G/L to A/P).
  Provide role-based security by major function (role) (e.g., segregation
  of PO entry and check printing, A/P user cannot perform G/L
  transactions, etc.).
  Visibility to workflow status and approval queue
  Support user-defined fields throughout the system and aid in
  customized functionality and reporting.
  Retain file attachments and source documents in electronic format
  (e.g., attach photos of damaged goods attributed to a sales order).
  Provide robust and configurable dashboards that display interactive
  content.
  Provide basic Business Intelligence (BI) and analytics capabilities.

  Facilitate data entry (e.g., field auto-completion, drop-down lists, etc.).

  Intuitive navigation for end users (e.g., desktop shortcuts).

  Provide a customer portal.

  Non-proprietary open reporting tools. List tools offered that are
  integrated with the system.
  User-level query and reporting tools that allow for formatting of data,
  headers, graphs, charts, etc.
  User-level security flows through to queries and reports.

  Drill down to source transactions within queries or reports following
  user-security rules.
  Schedule generation of reports and distribute via e-mail, to a shared
  folder or dashboard.
  Generate reports in multiple formats, e.g. HTML, PDF, Excel, Word, etc.

  Provide a robust report writer.

  --                                                                              --               --               --


FINANCE
General
  Provide for logical account grouping and cost centers.

  Support a chart of accounts (COA) of at least five segments of variable
  length.
  Support a minimum of 14 accounting periods or alternate process to
  differentiate closing or audit adjustments.
  Provide an account alias or shortcut to facilitate data entry of the GL
  string.
  Support statistical accounts (e.g., "dimensions," "non-financial data").

  Support use of statistical fields in subsidiary ledgers, and the ability to
  report on them (e.g., payroll class, # of hours worked, OT hours,
  inventory number of units purchased).
  Budget vs. Actual queries or reports with drill down to source data.

  CAFR reporting tool with ability to produce separate CAFR’s by
  Department (County, Schools, etc.).
  --                                                                              --               --               --



                                                             Children’s Services Council of St. Lucie County | 26
GL Journal Entries and Posting
   Support user-defined journal entry templates (e.g., standardized entry
   to consistently record month-end closing entries).
   Supports multiple journal entry types including regular, reversing,
   recurring, allocating, budget adjustments, system import or Excel
   upload
   Able to review subsidiary ledger journal entries and related source
   transactions prior to posting.
   Support the ability to open multiple GL accounting periods
   simultaneously with proper internal controls.
   Allow closed periods to be reopened based on restricted security
   rights.
   Support file attachments for journal entries.

   Provide GL posting controls that will prevent journal posting to
   specific accounts.
   Support a variety of cost allocation rules (e.g., other allocations,
   indirect cost rules, direct cost rules).
   Maintain audit trail that includes user ID, date, and actions such as
   read, change, delete, write. The audit trail should include before and
   after values.
   Allow posting to a future period.

   Provide annual closing processes that carry forward general ledger
   account balances and project data to the next fiscal year.
   Support automatic reversal of transactions.

   --                                                                              --               --               --

Treasury/Bank Reconciliation
   Import the bank records and clear the matched transactions.

   Provide bank reconciliation reports - ideally with option to report by
   legal entity or by segment.
   Provide an efficient method of managing multiple bank accounts.

   Integrate with A/P to map cash disbursements to bank reconciliation.

   Integrate with A/R to map cash receipts to bank reconciliation.

   --                                                                              --               --               --


Financial Reporting
   Generate standard financial reports in various groupings
   (consolidated, legal entity, location, and user-defined groupings)
   including:
     • Balance sheet

        • Income statement

        • Cash flow statement

        • Trial balance


                                                              Children’s Services Council of St. Lucie County | 27
        • Profit and loss by product line and other item attributes.

   Generate comparative financial statements based on user-defined
   criteria (e.g., this period vs. last period, this year/period vs. last
   year/period, etc.).
   Report across calendar and fiscal years.

   --                                                                                --               --               --

Project Accounting
   Cap Ex - Projects can span fiscal years.

   Projects can be updated by sub ledger or GL transactions.

   Provide reports that show transaction detail, project expenses,
   profitability, ROI, NPV, etc.
   Compare budgeted amounts to actual.

   Support for statistical (non-financial) accounts.

   --                                                                                --               --               --


ACCOUNTS PAYABLE
Vendor Maintenance
   Support 1099 forms.

   Support multiple transaction search criteria (vendor name, phone
   number, date of payment, payment amount, etc.).
   Able to map vendors to specific GL accounts.

   Support multiple contact information and pay-to addresses for a
   vendor.
   Able to create vendor groups (classifications).

   Able to track vendor performances.

   --                                                                                --               --               --


Invoice Processing
   Allow for EDI, OCR Scanning, or other electronic invoicing methods.

   Provide 2- and 3-way matching of P/Os, invoices, and receiving
   records.
   Decentralized invoice scanning and processing, route for review,
   approval and account coding with submittal to AP for check
   generation and distribution.
   Import and process Credit Card transactions; post transactions to
   payee vendor. Transactions downloaded from Credit Card Merchant;
   ability to import from Excel.
   Hold completed invoices until released for payment.



                                                                Children’s Services Council of St. Lucie County | 28
   Options for release of payment: automated or manual match to
   receiving report, payment terms, or other criteria defined by
   management.
   Support credits and discounts.

   Code multiple account distributions on a single invoice.

   Support user-defined payment term codes such as Net 20, 2/10 Net
   30, etc.
   Provide real-time detail of invoices by vendor.

   Provide real-time summary of invoices by vendor.

   Provide real-time detail of invoices by purchase order.

   Reporting/real-time inquiry of open invoices.

   Reporting/real-time inquiry of cash disbursements.

   --                                                                              --               --               --


Check Generation
   Provide check generation as a batch.

   Support wire transfers, EFT, and non-check payments.

   Support recurring payments and auto pay, with automatic approval
   after the initial review and flexible definition of payment frequency.
   Reporting/online inquiry of check register, including checks issued
   and checks voided.
   Support creating pro forma check register.

   Able to create and pay invoice without a Purchase Order.

   --                                                                              --               --               --


A/P Processing Capabilities
   Able to attach images and documents to invoices (one-to-one and one-
   to-many), and provide access to file attachments.
   Support capturing remittance advice for electronic payments.

   Distribute invoice to multiple General Ledger accounts by percentage,
   etc.
   Flag invoice or invoice line item as a Fixed Asset with a means to set
   up electronic Fixed Asset record.
   Multiple forms of payment; check, ACH, EFT, etc.

   Positive Pay management.




                                                              Children’s Services Council of St. Lucie County | 29
   Import electronic bank files and perform electronic bank
   reconciliation, including checks, deposits, wires, etc. Generate
   resulting Journal Entries.
   1099 tracking to Vendor, and Invoice, line- item level.

   Produce 1099 forms and print directly from software.

   Electronic reporting of 1099s.

   Employee expense management tools.

   Generate recurring payables templates with ability to modify amount.

   Provide validation rules (e.g., reference to Repair & Maintenance >
   $500 alerts that the transaction should go to Fixed Assets or vice
   versa).
   Able to close A/P while G/L remains open (e.g., at month's end).

   Provide robust reporting (e.g., invoices received but not matched,
   number of invoices processed, time to voucher invoices, days of AP
   outstanding, discounts taken, etc.).
   Use purchase orders and invoice information to determine future cash
   requirements (amount and date of future expenditures).
   --                                                                             --               --               --


ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE
Customer Master
   Able to create user-defined payment terms for customer.

   Able to classify customers into categories or groups.

   Able to store multiple contact information (e.g., name, address, phone
   number, e-mail, etc.) for a customer.
   Assign sales managers and collections managers to customer accounts.

   --                                                                             --               --               --


A/R Processing Capabilities
   Support monthly recurring invoices.

   Support one-time invoices.

   Manage initiation and tracking of credit memos.

   Provide ability to age receivables by location, product line, customer
   and date sort by customer.
   Able to create reason codes for AR write-off transactions.

   Support wire transfers.




                                                             Children’s Services Council of St. Lucie County | 30
  Support e-mailing invoices to customers.

  Able to calculate invoice due date based on customer's payment terms
  and tie to outstanding aging.
  Able to create customized customer invoices.

  Support posting of debit and credit memos to expenditure accounts.

  Post partial payments against any unpaid invoice.

  Support write-off of entire invoices or specific line items.

  --                                                                               --               --               --


Reporting
  Customer payment history.

  Produce customer statements for defined date ranges.

  Past due account balances.

  Sales and payment history by customer.

  Cash flow analysis.

  --                                                                               --               --               --


FIXED ASSETS
Asset Record
  Assign asset class in the asset master.

  Able to assign location to the asset.

  Able to attach electronic images (e.g., invoice scans, etc.).

  Able to use barcoding and other electronic means of tracking.

  Able to set capitalization policy limits (e.g., prevent items below
  specified threshold from being capitalized).
  Facilitate asset record initiation from project accounting.

  Able to capture lease end date or end-of-life date for an asset.

  Asset master record that supports following attributes: ID Number,
  Type (Land, Vehicles, etc.), Category and Sub-Category, Manufacturer,
  Model, Serial Number, VIN, License Number, Dates: Purchase and
  Disposal, Life and Depreciation Method, Parent/Child, Location,
  Department, Responsible Person, Affiliate (for transferred assets to
  external group), Status, Purchase Order, Project Number, Grant
  Number, Invoice Number, Description, Purchase Price, Attach
  Documents, User defined fields

                                                              Children’s Services Council of St. Lucie County | 31
  --                                                                              --               --               --


Depreciation
  Support multiple depreciation schedules and conventions (mid-month,
  year, tax, life of lease etc.).
  Able to set depreciable life for new assets based on asset class (e.g.,
  heavy equipment 12 years).
  Auto generate and post monthly depreciation JEs.

  Able to run depreciation reasonableness tests.

  Provide flexibility in closing of periods.

  Forecast depreciation for multiple years.

  Reports: Depreciation reasonableness, future depreciation for
  budgeting/forecasting.
  --                                                                              --               --               --


Other
  Integrates with the ERP system's AP and GL (either as an integrated
  module or a separate bolt-on).
  Able to support physical inventory counts on fixed assets (print count
  sheets etc.).
  Provide workflows for asset disposals, with electronic routing of
  review and approval for disposal.
  Provide Construction-In-Progress functionality:
  • Accumulate CIP costs in detail before the asset is put into service
  (including drill-down to attached invoices and other documentation)
  • Accept cost updates from AP and from GL allocations
  • Transfer completed asset to Asset Master

  Flexible search and reporting capability (vendor, asset class, invoice,
  bar code etc.).
  --                                                                              --               --               --


BUDGETING
  Identify if Budget module proposed is within ERP suite or an
  integrated 3rd party solution.
  Pull in data from Payroll module to generate personnel Budget.

  Position Control Budgeting: salaries, COLA increase percent, grades
  and step increases, benefits, etc.
  Excel-based Budget Management, e.g. export and import Budget
  worksheets, Budget adjustments, route for approval, etc.
  Online Budget worksheet distributed to Departments for entry.

  Capture budget line-item assumptions, attach supporting
  documentation
  What-if budget modeling, e.g. changes in positions, pay, benefits,
  increasing a tax rate, etc.


                                                             Children’s Services Council of St. Lucie County | 32
  Multiple budget iterations per year with version control

  Annual budget projections of revenues and expenses by percentage,
  dollar amount, and prior-year underspending based on yearly average.
  --                                                                              --               --               --


PROCUREMENT/PURCHASE ORDERS
Vendor Management
  Able to link vendor to one or more contracts.

  Determine and record vendor performance.

  Able to capture payment terms for each vendor.

  Able to capture lead times for products at vendor level.

  --                                                                              --               --               --


Purchase Orders
  Able to create a requisition and send for approval.

  Automatically create a purchase order from a requisition when all
  approvals have been obtained, defaulting as much information as
  possible from the requisition.
  Combine multiple requisitions to the same vendor into a single
  purchase order.
  Copy information from previous purchase order to obtain recurring
  monthly or annual (from one fiscal year to another) purchase orders.
  Prevent creation of purchases designated for non-approved vendors
  (initiate approval process).
  Combine orders into a blanket purchase order.

  Provide "drill down" to view the related requisition, invoice, purchase
  order, receipt documents, and general ledger account related to the
  purchase order.
  Able to apply credits (e.g., trade-ins, returns, and allowances) on a
  line-item basis.
  Route requisitions and purchase orders for review and approval.

  Single vendor master for all integrated modules.

  Online vendor registration portal with review and approval before
  posting to vendor master file.
   Vendor master file data: Vendor number, Legal name, doing business
  as name, Business category, Parent/child, Tax ID, EIN, SSN,
  Addresses - Physical, Remit To, Ship To, Mail, etc., Status - Active,
  Inactive, On Hold, etc., Payment and discount terms, 1099 Status,
  Insurance and bond data, Business or Contractor License Number, W 9
  status, ACH information for vendor payments (secured),. User-defined
  fields




                                                             Children’s Services Council of St. Lucie County | 33
 Support pre-encumbrance and encumbrance accounting.

 Create a Purchase Order without a Requisition.

 Budget verification at creation of Requisition and Purchase Order;
 option to warn or block if over Budget.
 Rules-based workflow routing for approval of Requisitions and
 Purchase Orders based on dollar amount, General Ledger account,
 Department, Object Code, etc.
 Flag Purchase Order or line item as a Fixed Asset with electronic
 method to set up a Fixed Asset record.
 --                                                                            --               --               --


PROJECT AND GRANT ACCOUNTING
 Project Master File Data to include: Number, Name, Description, Type,
 Funding Sources; one or multiple, Project Budget, Grant Number,
 Related Contract Number , Location, Sub–Project, Phases, Tasks, Start
 and End Dates, Status; Active, Inactive, etc., Project Manager, User
 Defined Fields
 Track expenditures against a Project or Grant; Purchase Order,
 Invoice, Journal Entry, wages, etc.
 Online query to display current status of a Grant; percent complete,
 percent remaining, dollars spent, dollars remaining, etc.
 --                                                                            --               --               --


HUMAN RESOURCES
 System checklist or workflow to manage Onboarding process, e.g.
 notification to departments, issue new hire packet, collection of forms
 I-9, W-4, initiate criminal background check, drug screen, orientation,
 training, issued assets, attach signed agreements, etc.
 Track forms issued to new hires with submitted and due date (e.g.
 within 30 days).
 Date-effective changes pay changes; dollar or percent.

 Track Probation periods; start and end dates, issue reminders when
 nearing review date, etc.
 Maintain position history by position and employee, e.g. hire dates,
 position changes, class changes, pay grade, title, etc.
 Define salary schedules with positions, steps, grades, (min/mid/max).

 Reporting and tracking to support the management of FMLA to
 maximum allowed of 480 hours. Describe tools that help with
 management and required notifications.
 Monitor employees on Workman’s Comp disability leave.

 Accrue vacation leave using variable rates based on years of service.

 Accumulate vacation leave and carry over up to various maximums

 Performance review management; track dates, resulting grade, pay
 change, scan and attach review forms, etc.


                                                          Children’s Services Council of St. Lucie County | 34
 Track mandatory training and certifications required with renewal
 dates; generate reminders when nearing due dates.
 Workflow to manage separation process, e.g. notification to
 Departments, Cobra letters, retirement benefit enrollment, pay-outs
 (e.g. leave), exit interview, collect issued equipment, etc.
 Functionality to support requirements of the Affordable Care Act;
 track required hours and monthly data for Forms 1094-B and C, 1095-
 B and C, and track hours worked for look back purposes.
 Self-Service for staff and managers: leave balances, leave request
 approvals, performance reviews, notifications, etc.
 Employee Self-Service to include view and update after workflow
 approval of: Leave balances, Request leave, Pay advice, W2, 1095,
 Direct deposit, Contact information , Benefit elections, W 4 - modeling
 and changes, Skill set tracking: training, certifications, CDL
 Allow for the storage of policies and employee handbook online
 accessible to employees
 Retain history of changes made to employee record; pay, benefit
 elections, transfers, etc.
 --                                                                             --               --               --


TIMEKEEPING AND PAYROLL
 Electronic time card with ability to enter daily time, exception time,
 etc., and the ability to utilize mobile device technology for transacting
 Rules-based comp time accrual based on schedule and eligibility, e.g.
 time and a half, hourly, etc.
 Rules-based workflow approval routing of time entry to one or
 multiple supervisors; with ability to override and correct, route back
 to employee. Authorize using electronic signature.
 Leave bank verification at time entry; visibility to leave balances.

 Support flex time schedules based on employee group, e.g. 37.5 hour
 work week.
 Alert or report on missing time entry for employees in the system
 before processing payroll.
 Generate a report for part-time or temporary employee hours worked
 to manage hour threshold for Affordable Care Act compliance.
 Create unlimited pay codes that are rules-based including formulas,
 fixed amounts and number of pay periods per month. For example: a.
 Overtime by employee type; pay or comp time bank. c. Vacation Pay
 Out: daily rate or # hours x hourly rate. d. Sick Leave Pay Out: $25/day
 or # hours x hourly rate e. Sick Leave Pay Out for Retirees: 30 days at
 100% balance at 50%
 Create unlimited deduction codes that are rules- based with formulas,
 fixed amounts, number of pay periods per month, etc. Examples:
 medical, dental, taxes, 457 plan contributions, Long Term disability,
 garnishments, child support, etc.
 Rules-based payroll deductions hierarchy e.g. tax liens 1st, then child
 support, health benefits, retirement and taxes, etc.
 Define rule to ensure employee receives guaranteed net pay amount,
 e.g. after taxes, garnishments and other deductions. Carry forward
 deductions until obligation is fully deducted.




                                                           Children’s Services Council of St. Lucie County | 35
 Apply change to pay by percent or dollar amount for a group of
 employees by class, group, etc. and ability to exempt new hires or
 specific staff. e.g. COLA increase, Review before updating employee
 records.
 Process retroactive pay adjustments and associated impacts on
 contributions, deductions and reporting to benefit providers. Ability to
 model pay check before posting is Nice to Have.
 Exception reporting to review all records for changes since last
 payroll, e.g. no pay, or other anomalies.
 Calculate and process mid-period pay changes for active employees,
 terminations, new hires, etc.
 Calculate and process off cycle pay runs as required.

 Generate pay advices and bank file for direct- deposit employees; post
 pay advice to self-service dashboard.
 Support multiple direct deposit accounts

 Generate Positive Pay file.

 Produce data for monthly, quarterly, and yearly tax forms and filings.

 Produce Forms W-2 and print directly from software; make available
 via self-service dashboard.
 Electronic reporting to Social Security, IRS, State and Workers Comp,
 and electronic check stubs
 Ability to accommodate calendar and fiscal year rate change

 Wage garnishment service

 Migration of payroll information from Jan 2021 thru September 2021
 (for a October 2021 go live)
 Allow for the storage of scanned documents and images

 Provide an audit log

 Ability to enforce overtime rules

 Configuration for FL retirement system (457b plan)

 Mileage reimbursement and timekeeping

 --                                                                             --               --               --


CRM
 Classify CRM stakeholder records into different categories, such as
 "elected officials", "agency representative", "state government", etc.
 Automate task assignment and schedule follow-ups for CSCSLC staff
 members
 Track "touch points" as transactional for the sake of reporting and
 analysis.




                                                           Children’s Services Council of St. Lucie County | 36
Integrate with other CSCSLC enterprise applications used specifically
for grants management and accounting.
Ability to "departmentalize" contacts within a single organization.

Allow for a single contact to be associated with multiple organizations

Allow for agency contacts to be associated to one or more "programs"
of an organization.
Allow for the recording of a single contact's roles with multiple
organizations. For example, John Smith works at ABC Bank but also
supports The School for Arts.
"Tag" conversation notes based on the conversation itself. Example,
speaking with John Smith at ABC Bank about The School of Arts, tag
conversation as relevant to both orgs
Touch point classification that details method of contact, like phone, in
person, text, etc.
Integrated text messaging (SMS send and receive)

Integrated task scheduling with MS Outlook, so that tasks and calendar
entries can be managed on a single MS Outlook calendar.
MS Hosted Exchange email integration for the purpose of auto-
generation of "touch points" and integration of data, like emails and
email attachments.
Integration to email marketing for both distribution lists and touch
points
Ability to search touch point by person but also by project or event

Mass distribution of event invitations and the recording of event
attendance via RSVP functionality
For CSCSLC programs team, the integration of site visit notes in both
CRM and grants management solution.
Possible integration/dashboard of outcomes data directly in both the
grants management, CRM and ERP
Possible integration of site review summaries for the sake of review by
the board members. Board member instant access to site reviews.
Social media integration, for times when CSCSLC references
organizations or people in social media posts. Tracking these
references in the CRM
Integration of the status of "out of cycle" agency requests.

Able to organize and manage multiple addresses per contact along
with multiple contacts for each organization
Able to attach documents and emails to a customer master record.

Reporting/online inquiry for grants history and payment history.

Able to create ad-hoc stakeholder analysis report.




--                                                                            --               --               --




                                                         Children’s Services Council of St. Lucie County | 37
GRANTS MANAGEMENT
Agency Portal
  Ability to customize look and feel (branding) of Agency Portal

  Agency representatives can self-register for username/password

  Character limits within forms of applications

  Agency representatives can reset forgotten password

  CSCSLC can reset agency representative password

  Agency can edit contacts/users/deactivate old users

  System automatically checks EIN of agency when agency first
  registers. (Tax Status Verification against IRS Publication 78 and IRS
  Business Master File)
  Ability to enforce business rules (periodic agency profile updates)

  CSCSLC has ability to assign individualized permissions and
  associations for CSC team members
  Agency and CSCSLC has access to document repository, where
  documents can be uploaded and “turned on” agency by agency
  Visible to agency is a “countdown clock” that shows remaining time
  available for an agency to submit a proposal (response to a CSCSLC
  RFP).
  “Countdown clock” should be able to be applied to any process that
  requires an agency response (RFP response, quarterly reports, audits,
  etc.)
  Ability to store agency profile information, including: agency name,
  agency address, agency phone, agency staff names and contact info,
  agency staff contact codes/titles
  Import and export capabilities for all agency profile information

  CSCSLC assigned “administrator” able to set permissions for both
  CSCSLC staff and agency representatives
  System should support multiple programs per agency

  System should support multiple contacts/users per agency

  System prevents duplication of registered agencies. Each agency can
  only register once. System informs agency if they are already
  registered
  Distinctive names between agencies and programs.                              --               --               --

  Programs created as separate entities, but information should be able
  to aggregate up to the agency entity level



  --                                                                            --               --               --




                                                           Children’s Services Council of St. Lucie County | 38
Customer Service
  Agency access to FAQs section via portal

  CSCSLC able to add/edit to FAQs section of portal

  CSCSLC staff able to broadcast/send announcements to agencies

  Announcement to appear on agency home page (visible when they
  first log in to the agency portal) (ie Communication Board)
  Ability to send bulk emails through portal

  Agency access to customizable resources on portal

  Agency access to Support (help desk) through established link on
  Agency home page
  User feedback sent to Administrators (QI)

  --                                                                            --               --               --


Dashboards
  Agency can monitor grant allocation balance via portal

  Agency can view outcomes via dashboard in portal

  Agency can view population served (number or % of contracted goal)
  via dashboard in portal
  Data represented in dashboard should be visible via pie charts, for
  awards (both present and historical). This should be available for
  viewing to both CSCSLC staff and agency representatives.
  Dashboards for Individual Outcomes should compare population
  achieving the outcome with population served for that outcome with
  % achieving quarterly and YTD.
  Dashboard visualizes historical and current agency data by program
  with ability to configure
  --                                                                            --               --               --


Programs Dept Grants Management: RFPs
  CSCSLC able to build an RFP via a tool (online form, form builder)

  CSCSLC able to build content of RFP from content that was built for
  previous RFPs (copy and edit prior process)
  Include CSCSLC Publish RFP to select agencies via portal

  CSCSLC sets deadline for an agency to respond to RFP via portal

  Agency able to view RFP via portal

  Agency able to respond to RFP via portal by upload of required
  document(s) at both Agency and Program levels; one slot per required
  document, not a combined pdf or zipped file.


                                                           Children’s Services Council of St. Lucie County | 39
  RFPs should be able to be produced in form builder or from existing or
  already-created RFPs
  Automatic save feature for Agency responding to RFP when
  transitioning from one section to another when field entries have been
  made; Each page/screen should also have a manual Save button. Auto
  save feature in real time.
  Ability to convert sections or complete online RFP to preview and
  printer friendly PDF
  Agency access to FAQs

  Auto-save feature in real time, including calculations

  Portal Administrator has ability enable revisions after submission of
  form
  --                                                                            --               --               --


Programs Dept Grants Management: Proposal Review
  CSCSLC Staff ability to review and score proposals

  Council members able to review all proposals submitted

  CSCSLC staff should be able to create evaluation form with scoring for
  review of proposals; reviewer able to add notes attached to the agency
  submitted proposal
  Assigned outside-of-agency/External reviewers have ability to review
  and score proposals via portal
  Process of scoring proposals to include budget section to have column
  reflecting amounts requested in proposal by line item, column for
  recommended amount/amount to be awarded. Able to convert Budget
  section to Excel format/carry over budget to create allocation
  amounts by line item for contracting and allocations.

  Ability to create/build unique scoring tool for each RFP including
  ability to assign point values to each evaluation question with total
  review score.
  Ability to convert online evaluation form with responses to printer
  friendly pdf form.
  Security scan for malicious uploads

  Auto-save feature

  --                                                                            --               --               --


Programs Dept Grants Management: Contracts
  CSCSLC able to publish contract via portal from MS Word/pdf format

  Agency able to access their particular contract(s)

  Agency able to view and download then upload signed contract

  Agency able to execute/sign contract electronically (i.e. Docusign
  integration)



                                                           Children’s Services Council of St. Lucie County | 40
  Integrate agency attestation with tick boxes for contract with attached
  budget and outcomes incorporated as part of contract
  Ability to connect approved RFP budget and outcomes to the contract

  --                                                                                 --               --               --


Programs Dept Grants Management: Special Designations
  Same capabilities as RFP section to build & use a less detailed special
  designation request form (Report Builder); ability for Report Builder
  to pull information from Proposal & Program form fields
  Same review capabilities as RFP section

  Same contract generation capacities

  --                                                                                 --               --               --


Programs Dept Performance Measurement: Metrics
  Customizable reporting features (Report Builder) for System Querying
  and Reporting
  CSCSLC publishes participation (i.e. demographic) template

  Participation template able to collect multiple pieces of data to include

    • Population of Individual children, Group children, Individual adults,
  Group adults, families served each Quarter & YTD compared to
  targeted population goals.
    • Up to four outcomes per program w/ tracking of # served and #
  achieving the outcome per quarter & YTD
    • Progress field for narrative description of progress/steps toward
  achievement of each outcome
  Ability to track demographics (# served with subtotals by
  race/ethnicity, gender, age groupings for children of birth-4, 5-9, 10-
  14, 15-17, 18 for target populations (individual Children, group
  children, individual Adults, group adults) by zip codes (Ft Pierce 8 zip
  codes, PSL 7 zip codes with subtotals for city and county), if teen
  parent, and number of families served (See attached Demographic
  Survey Excel Sheet)
  Ability to track/display programs achieving 2 or more outcomes by
  quarter & YTD
  Ability to set “required”, “writable” or “read only” fields

  Ability to roll over data from one process to another (as in quarterly
  reports)
  Ability to schedule and record Site Visits including reports

  API Integration (ie Salesforce, ArcGIS)

  Import/Export/Integration capabilities with CRM and ERP

  Grantee outcomes evaluation – to capture progress on grant-specific
  milestones and intended outcomes.



                                                                Children’s Services Council of St. Lucie County | 41
  --                                                                                --               --               --


Programs Dept Performance Measurement: Programs Reporting
  Ability to roll over historical data to pre-populate forms

  Agency only able to report 1 quarter of information at a time

  All required items must be completed before submission is allowed.

  CSCSLC ability to open up and close reporting windows

  CSCSLC ability to lock previous quarter reported numbers to prevent
  agencies from modifying reported numbers (read only vs required
  field settings)
  CSCSLC ability to modify previous quarter reported numbers, based on
  CSCSLC staff member permissions (some staff prevented from
  changing agency-reported numbers)
  Quarterly reports saved historically for each quarter by Fiscal Year
  (FY); accessible by program or by quarter
  Able to attach files to slots for uploading information from program as
  part of reports (i.e. demographic tables, background screens, scans)
  Auto-save feature

  Ability to Archive data

  Customizable reporting features (Report Builder) for System Querying
  and Reporting
  --                                                                                --               --               --


Programs Dept Performance Measurement: Outcomes
  Grantee/Agency has ability to submit quarterly reporting

  Proposed Outcomes developed using documentation from outcome-
  services matrix in RFP
  CSCSLC staff sets final outcomes based upon proposal with ability to
  edit during the FY
  Ability to roll over proposed outcome data from grant proposal to
  annual contract with capacity to edit
  Ability to roll over proposed outcome data from grant proposal to
  quarterly report to establish baseline (Q1)
  --                                                                                --               --               --


Programs Dept Performance Measurement: Monitoring
  CSCSLC staff able to enter & track Contact-Progress-Review (C-P-R)
  notes by program using dates during the program year (example
  current year 10/1/2019 to 9/30/2020)
  Metric for tracking C-P-R notes by days since last note (green for less
  than 30 days, yellow for 31 to 59 days, red more than 60 days since
  last entry)
  Program summary page for CSCSLC staff to see metrics for individual
  program


                                                               Children’s Services Council of St. Lucie County | 42
  Ability to sort/filter program information by priority funding areas

  Ability to give Programs access to Site Summary Report for their
  program.
  Ability to deactivate Agency and store data on portal and/or externally
  in Archive by fiscal year
  --                                                                             --               --               --


Programs Dept Fund Management: Budgeting
  Ability to integrate line items budgets from proposal to establish line
  item budget allocations to include upload of supporting line item
  documentation with individual labels for multiple attachments
  Ability to use established line item budget allocations for roll over into
  annual contract
  Ability to report program budgets by priority areas for FY across
  proposal processes or funding streams
  Ability to export/exchange line item budget data from the CSCSLC
  evaluation process to the ERP system.
  --                                                                             --               --               --


Programs Dept Fund Management: Reimbursements
  Agency able to upload requests for reimbursements along with
  multiple attachments
  Automatic Email notification of reimbursement submission to
  designated CSCSLC Team member(s)
  Ability for CSCSLC staff to view ongoing monthly reimbursements, ytd
  totals, and remaining balances of line items.
  Ability to share/exchange ERP budget data and expense data after
  contracting phase for use on agency/program dashboards to display
  up-to-date information regarding spendouts and remaining budget
  balances.
  --                                                                             --               --               --
Programs Dept Other
  Product roadmap of system to view future planned development and
  updates to system (if yes, include URL where the product roadmap can
  be viewed)
  Form design and flexibility to allow application, reporting, and intake
  process forms to be fully managed and configured by CSC
  Team/designated Administrators
  --                                                                             --               --               --




                                                            Children’s Services Council of St. Lucie County | 43
Appendix C – Glossary of Terms

   The following glossary of terms contains both current terminology commonly used at Children’s Service Council of
   St. Lucie County (CSCSLC) along with terminology anticipated for the purpose of consistent conversation during
   CSCSLC’s RFP process.

   ACTIVELY SERVED POPULATION – the number of unique clients anticipated to receive services during the
   contracted fiscal year by category; individual and group children and adults.

   AD VALOREM (Property Tax) – If you own property in Florida, that property is assessed annually by the county
   property appraiser. This assessment determines the amount of ad valorem taxes owed each year on your property.
   Ad valorem or property taxes are collected annually by the county tax collector.

   AGENCY - an external stakeholder organization that submits proposals for funding and runs a program or multiple
   programs that deliver services to members of the community. In the CSCSLC Fiscal Department, agencies are
   considered vendors, as they submit expense reimbursement requests on a regular basis.

   AGENCY “PROGRAM” BUDGET – Approved annual financial statement which stipulates the Agencies “PROGRAM”
   expenditures with certain parameters and limitations. An outline of all dollars that are to be expended as outlined
   by line items.

   AGENCY “PROGRAM” BUDGET TRANSFER – Transfer of CSCSLC funding within approved “PROGRAM” line items.
   Requires submission of Budget Transfer Request form and CSCSLC approval

   AGENCY CONTRACT – A legal narrative proposal which includes an approved budget and requirements signed by
   both parties (Agency & CSCSLC) regarding PROGRAM parameters.

   AGENCY “PROGRAM” REIMBURSEMENTS – Funding provided on a monthly basis upon request by the Agency
   Program for actual expenditures incurred by the programs with supporting documents required.

   BOCC (Board of County Commissioners) - Government entity which provides the County offices with the code of
   conduct, rules & regulations guidelines, and employee benefits.

   CIVIC PLUS – the application currently being used by CSCSLC as a website content management system and web
   hosting. CSCSLC is using some of the functionality of CivicPlus to engage with agencies.

   CLIENT LEVEL DATA - Demographic descriptors for individual program participants including benchmarks,
   measurable indicators of progress toward outcomes, individualized client data that can also be aggregated for
   group results/reporting.

   CRM (CLIENT RESOURCE MANAGEMENT) SOFTWARE – currently, CSCSLC is using no CRM software.




                                                  Children’s Services Council of St. Lucie County | 44
COMMUNITY INDICATORS – measurements that provide information about past and current trends and assist in
making decisions that affect future outcomes. Community indicators provide insight into the overall direction of a
community: whether it is improving, declining, or staying the same.

CONTRACTED GOALS – The number of unique clients anticipated to receive services during the contracted fiscal
year by category: individual and group children and adults. Agreed upon targeted achievements/results for
program & participants.

COUNCIL – refers to the Board of Directors of the CSCSLC or CSCSLC as an organization. As mandated by Florida
Statute and County Ordinance, the CSCSLC Council is made up of ten (10) members. Five of these members are ex
officio (meaning "from the office") and serve by virtue of office or position while five of these members are
appointed by the governor.

CAI (COUNCIL ACTION ITEM) – A request presented to the Council for approval for a new item or change of either a
monetary amount or service/contract with regards to a Budget / Amendment / Reimbursement / Agreement.

CROSS FUNCTIONAL FLOWCHART – a component of the process documentation set, a cross functional flowchart
maps a process flow but does so in such a way as to identify the process owner; the person or actor responsible for
completing the process step. This is done by the utilization of “swim lanes” or grid-like diagram organized into
sections that provide an extra dimension by assigning each process step to an actor.

CSC – a commonly-used abbreviation to reference the organization CSCSLC. Also can be used to reference the
organization model that is a children’s services council, of which there are 14 in the state of Florida.

CSC BUDGET – CSCSLC’s expected income and expenditures, including a contingency fund. This process shall
include a computation of the proposed millage rate, within the voter-approved cap, that is necessary to fund the
tentative budget.

CSC’S CLIENTS – the county taxpayers, the funded programs, children and families served through funded
programs.

DEPARTMENT FRAMEWORK – part of the process documentation set. It’s a one-page, 10-by-10 matrix that
describes the primary functions of a CSCSLC department. Column headings list the department’s primary functions,
while row entries build out categories/classification of work effort.

DOR (Department of Revenue) - A government entity in which overseas property tax who is involved with the TRIM
program.

E C IMPACT – the current cloud-based solution being used by CSCSLC as a grants and community impact
management solution.

FISCAL (Accounting, Finance) – Department within CSC which is responsible for financial management activities of
CSC and the funded programs.

FISCAL POLICY MANUAL– Manual which outlines the program guidelines of CSCSLC fiscal policies required for
funding requests including a Technical Assistance guide which provides examples, forms and guidance.


                                               Children’s Services Council of St. Lucie County | 45
FRS (Florida Retirement System) – The FRS Pension Plan is a defined benefit plan, in which you are guaranteed a
benefit at retirement if you meet certain criteria to all FRS employees. The benefit is pre-funded by contributions
paid by the employer.

FUNDING CATEGORIES: – The funding priorities of the CSCSLC are programs/initiatives that address the following
goals: keeping kids in school, keeping kids off the street, keeping kids off drugs, every baby is a healthy baby, and
stopping child abuse before it happens.

GOAL(S) – Articulates the intended result of the grant and progress toward broader, long-term impact.

GREEN SHEET – A program reimbursement monthly summary schedule maintained in a Microsoft Excel
spreadsheet, historically printed on a green sheet of paper.

MOU (Memorandum of Understanding) - A written document which describes the terms of an agreement where a
contract it too formal but a handshake is not enough.

OBJECTIVES – Activities the grantee will undertake with CSC funding and to articulate mutually agreed-upon
benchmarks.

UNDESIGNATED – These requests are to fund an agency for potential new or expanded programs that positively
impact the CSCSLC funding priorities. There are no specific deadline, requests are subject to availability of funds
and Council approval.

TARGETED ALLOCATIONS – Funding directed to a specific community need.

STRATEGIC SHORT-TERM FUNDING – Funding designed to address a need that would last no longer than 3 years.

OUTCOMES – the individual-level changes that can reasonably occur during the grant period as a result of the
proposed activities or services. The expected outcomes may relate to a new level of functioning of clients served,
new or expanded resources devoted to addressing the goal, or specific changes in the knowledge, attitudes and
behaviors among program participants after program participation. Together, the grant objectives and outcomes
serve to create mutual expectations and understanding between CSC and the grantee about what is expected to
happen as a result of this funding.

PROCESS DOCUMENTATION SET – The documents used to provide information about the processes at CSCSLC.
There are 6 different types of documents within the Process Documentation Set; Department Function Framework,
Process Portfolio, Software Portfolio, Reports Portfolio, Cross Functional Flowchart, and Process Step Activity
Chart.

PROCESS FLOW DIAGRAM – part of the process documentation set. A process map used to describe a process flow
by referencing existing cross functional flowcharts. This format is utilized when a comprehensive process to be
described is already mapped out on two or more cross functional flowcharts.




                                                Children’s Services Council of St. Lucie County | 46
PROCESS PORTFOLIO – part of the process documentation set. An inventory of processes executed by CSC staff
members. All entries in the process portfolio tie back to a single work effort category/classification on the
department framework.

PROCESS STEP ACTIVITY CHART – part of the process documentation set. A document that details the steps
necessary to carry out a particular process. The document is formatted in such a way so that CSC staff members can
read and reference process steps quickly. All process step activity charts may tie back to a process block contained
on a cross functional flowchart.

PROGRAM – The funded organized group which are administered by Agencies that provide services as described
within the scope CSCSLC contract guidelines.

PROGRAM ABSTRACT – Summary of the information contained in the grant proposal. The abstract should contain
the agency name, program name, program type, primary program activities, population to be served, geographic
area primarily served, as well as any other significant information about the program. The abstract will be used by
CSC to promote the program to be funded.

PROGRAM ACCOUNTABILITY REPORT – A report which provides fiscal and programmatic performance for certain
periods for each program funded for certain fiscal years. This report includes the population served by age,
race/ethnicity, children served individually, as well as children and adults served in groups.

PROGRAM LEVEL (AGGREGATE) DATA (define with Jim, this definition should reference another definition –
“Client Level Data”

RECORDS RENTION POLICY (GOVERNMENT IN THE SUNSHINE) - retention/disposal maintenance of records held
in compliance relating to governing laws.

REIMBURSEMENTS – An agency which is funded for the programs actual expenditures incurred in accordance with
their budget along with supporting documentation.

RFP (REQUEST FOR PROPOSAL) – a document that solicits proposal, often made through a bidding process, by an
agency or company interested in procurement of a commodity, service, or valuable asset, to potential suppliers to
submit business proposals. CSCSLC regularly puts out RFPs to solicit funding proposals from agencies.

REPORTS PORTFOLIO – part of the process documentation set. An inventory of reports generated by CSC staff
members. Entries include not only reports generated out of the enterprise applications but also reports generated
from desktop application documents like Microsoft Excel spreadsheets.

SOFTWARE PORTFOLIO – part of the process documentation set. An inventory of software applications used by
CSC staff members. Entries include desktop applications, external stakeholder web portals, and desktop application
documents like Microsoft Excel spreadsheets. An entry in the software portfolio is confirmed to be a “system of
record” for some subset of CSC data.

SYSTEM OF RECORD – refers to an electronic repository for data that is considered as the rightful and accurate
container for that record. A system of record can be an enterprise application with its own database structure or a
productivity software document, like a Microsoft Excel spreadsheet.


                                               Children’s Services Council of St. Lucie County | 47
TAXING AUTHORITY - provided for by statute and ordinance and allows the levy of up to .50 mills in property
taxes. The ten-member Council has decision making authority over the programs to be funded, setting millage
rates, and approving the budget. The cost to a local property owner to pay .50 mills would be 50 cents for every
$1,000 of taxable property.

TOUCH POINT – any form of contact, either via electronic means or in person, with a stakeholder external to
CSCSLC.

TRIM (Truth in Millage)- In 1980, the Florida Legislature passed the Truth in Millage (TRIM) Act. This law is
designed to inform taxpayers which governmental entity is responsible for the taxes levied and the amount of tax
liability taxpayers owe to each taxing authority. The property appraiser sends this information, known as the TRIM
notice, to the property owner.

TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE GUIDE– A manual designed to facilitate a complete and accurate reimbursement requests
using the appropriate forms and in accordance with the policies set forth in the Fiscal Policy Manual.

VENDOR - a person or company offering something for sale, office supplies and equipment for example.




                                               Children’s Services Council of St. Lucie County | 48
