          REQUEST FOR PROPOSAL: RFP# 784-20-425

                 Closed Captioning Services for
               The University of Houston Downtown



                       Deliver Bid Response to:
                        University of Houston-Downtown
                            Purchasing Department
                           Attention: Michael Vernon
                         One Main Street, Suite S970
                              Houston, TX 77002



                              Posting Date:
                            September 30, 2019


                           Proposal Due Date:
           October 15, 2019 at 3:00pm Central Standard Time



         DO NOT FORGET TO INCLUDE ELECTRONIC VERSION OF BID SUBMISSION




1|Page
                                    Table of Contents

INTRODUCTION………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………3

AWARD PROCESS ……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………5

GENERAL INFORMATION AND REQUIREMENTS………………………………………………………………………………………………………………6

SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS OF REQUEST FOR PROPOSAL ………………………………………………………………………………………………….8

GENERAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………..9

DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES – GENERAL REQUIREMENTS – SCOPE OF WORK………………………………………………………………….15

INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………18

GENERAL INFORMATION QUESTIONNAIRE……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………19

EVALUATION CRITERIA PROCESS…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………..21

EXHIBITS……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………….22




2|Page
SECTION I
INTRODUCTION

1.1 GENERAL:

    Founded in 1974, University of Houston-Downtown is an urban university with over 14,400 students and more than
    39,000 alumni. UHD is the second largest, four-year, public university in Houston and is a separate university within
    the University of Houston System. Located in Houston’s central business district, UHD offers 45 bachelor’s degree
    programs and eight master’s programs.

    UHD is one of the most ethnically diverse institutions in the nation and is recognized as a federally-qualified Hispanic
    Serving Institution (HSI) and a Minority Serving Institution (MSI). In 2015, UHD was one of five universities in Texas to
    receive the Carnegie Foundation Community Engagement Classification for its commitment to civic engagement.

    The University invites you to submit a proposal for providing Closed Captioning Services.

    Respondents are encouraged to propose contractual arrangements offering the maximum benefit to the University in
    terms of (1) services to the University and (2) total overall cost to the University. Proposers should describe all
    educational, state, and local government discounts, as well as any other applicable discounts that may be available to
    the University in a contract for Services.

    RESPONDENTS ARE CAUTIONED TO READ THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS RFP CAREFULLY AND
    TO SUBMIT A COMPLETE RESPONSE TO ALL REQUIREMENTS AND QUESTIONS AS DIRECTED.

1.2 SUBMITTAL DEADLINE:
    University will accept proposals until, October 15, 2019 at 3:00pm Central Standard Time. DO NOT USE U. S.
    Postal Service in submitting your bid.

     Submit one (1) clearly marked original, one paper copy and One (1) Electronic copy in a memory drive (USB)
     of the proposal including any supplemental printed material referenced with the, “RFP 784-20-425 “Closed
     Captioning Services.” must be submitted and received in the University’s Purchasing Office on or before the time and
     date specified, and delivered to:
                                           University of Houston-Downtown
                                               Purchasing Department
                                              Attention: Michael Vernon
                                             One Main Street, Suite S970
                                                 Houston, TX 77002

     NOTE: ALL ELECTRONIC DOCUMENTS MUST BE SUBMITTED IN PDF FORMAT & ATTACHED TO BID
     RESPONSE. The materials submitted must be enclosed in a sealed envelope (box or container); the package must
     show clearly the submittal deadline; and name and the return address of the Respondent must be clearly visible.

   1.3 PRE-PROPOSAL MEETING: There will be no Pre-Proposal Meeting.

  1.4 TELEPHONE/FAX/EMAIL PROPOSALS:
      Facsimile (“FAX”) or Emailed proposals are not acceptable when in response to this RFP

  1.5 LATE PROPOSALS:
      Late proposals will not be accepted or considered under any circumstance.



3|Page
  1.6 UNIVERSITY CONTACTS:
      Any questions or concerns regarding this RFP shall be directed to:
      Buyer: Michael Vernon Email: VernonM@UHD.edu Phone: (713) 221-5743

      University specifically requests that Respondents restrict all contact and questions regarding this RFP to the above
      named individual.

  1.7 INQUIRIES AND INTERPRETATIONS:
       Inquiries/Questions must be submitted in writing and received no later than close of business October 4, 2019 at
       5:00 p.m., Central Standard Time (CST).

                                     University of Houston-Downtown
                                     Michael Vernon
                                     VernonM@UHD.edu

      Responses to inquiries, which directly affect an interpretation or change to this RFP will be issued in writing by
      addendum (amendment) and posted to the Electronic State Business Daily http://www.txsmartbuy.com/sp. All
      such addenda issued by the University prior to the time that proposals are received shall be considered part of the
      RFP, and the Respondent shall be required to consider and acknowledge receipt of such in his proposal.

      Only those inquiries the University replies to which are made by formal written addenda shall be binding. Oral and
      other interpretations or clarification will be without legal effect. The Respondent must acknowledge all addenda by
      either signing or returning such document(s) or by letter. Such acknowledgment must be received prior to the
      hour and date specified for receipt of proposals, or shall accompany the proposal.

  1.8 PUBLIC INFORMATION:
      All information, documentation, and other materials submitted in response to this solicitation are subject to public
      disclosure under the Texas Public Information Act (Texas Government Code, Chapter 552.001, et seq.) after the
      solicitation is completed and upon successful contract award.

      If a proposal includes proprietary data, trade secrets or information the respondent wishes to except from public
      disclosure, then respondent must specifically label such data, secrets or information as follows: “PRIVILEGED
      AND CONFIDENTIAL – PROPRIETARY INFORMATION.” To the extent permitted by law, information labeled as
      such will be used by University only for purposes related to or arising out of: (1) evaluation of proposals; (2)
      selection of a vendor pursuant to the RFP process; and, (3) negotiation and execution of a contract with the
      selected vendor.

  1.9 TERM OF CONTRACT:
      The term(s) resulting from this RFP will become effective upon signing of a contract. The expected term of the
      contract will be three (3) years with the option to renew two (2) consecutive additional one year terms, for a
      maximum of five (5) years. The University reserves the right to negotiate modification of contract terms and
      schedules as necessary. The University reserves the right to negotiate modification of contract terms and
      schedules as necessary.

  1.10 CANCELLATION:
      The University has the right to cancel for default all or part of the undelivered portions of this Contract if the
      Contractor breaches any of the terms including warranties of Contractor or if the Contractor becomes insolvent or
      commits acts of bankruptcy. Such right of cancellation is in addition to and not in lieu of any other remedies which
      the University may have in law or equity.

  1.11 TERMINATION:
      The performance of work under this Contact may be terminated by the University in accordance with this
      provision. Termination of work shall be effected by the delivery to the Contractor of a “Notice of Termination”
4|Page
      specifying the extent to which performance of work under the order is terminated and the date upon which such
      termination becomes effective. Under no circumstances will the Contractor be entitled to payment for anticipated
      profits, unabsorbed overhead, or interest on borrowing by reason of such termination.

      The University may terminate the Contract, without penalty, without cause by giving thirty (30) days’ written notice
      of such termination to the Contractor.

SECTION II
AWARD PROCESS

  2.1 BASIS OF AWARD:
      A contract may be issued based on the proposal(s) considered the most advantageous to the University. Factors
      to be considered in determining an award are described in Section IX below, Evaluation Criteria Process.
      University reserves the right to make a split award, multiple awards, or no award at all. The University will issue an
      internal purchase order referencing the UHD Contract number as referenced on the Notice of Award. The
      Contractor agrees not to deliver goods or services awarded under this RFP until issuance of a Purchase Order by
      the University.

  2.2 CONTRACT AWARD PROCESS:
      An award for the services specified herein will be made following a procedure using Request for Proposals.

         A. Proposals will be opened publicly to identify the names of the Respondents, but will be afforded security
            sufficient to preclude disclosure of the contents of the proposal, including prices or other information, prior to
            award. After opening, an award may be made on the basis of the proposals initially submitted, without
            discussion, clarification or modification, or on the basis of negotiation with any of the Respondents or, at the
            University’s sole option and discretion, the University may discuss or negotiate all elements of the proposal
            with selected Respondents who represent a competitive range of proposals. For purposes of negotiation, a
            competitive range of acceptable or potentially acceptable proposals may be established comprising the
            highest rated proposal(s).

         B. After the submission of a proposal but before making an award, the University may permit the bidder to
            revise the proposal in order to obtain the best final offer. The University may not disclose any information
            derived from the proposals submitted from competing offers in conducting such discussions. The University
            will provide each bidder with an equal opportunity for discussion and revision of proposals. Further action on
            proposals not included in the competitive range will be deferred pending an award, but the University
            reserves the right to include additional proposals in the competitive range if deemed in the best interest of
            the University.

         C. University reserves the right to award a Contract for all or any portion of the requirements proposed by
            reason of this request, award multiple Contracts, or to reject any and all proposals if deemed to be in the
            best interests of the University and to re-solicit for proposals, or to reject any and all proposals if deemed to
            be in the best interests of the University and to temporarily or permanently abandon the procurement. If the
            University awards a contract, it will award the contract to the respondent, whose proposal is the most
            advantageous to the University, considering price and the evaluation factors set forth in this RFP. The
            contract file must state in writing the basis upon which the award is made.

  2.3 OTHER FACTORS FOR SELECTION:
      The Respondent selected for an award will be the Respondent whose proposal, as presented in the response to
      this RFP, is the most advantageous. The University is not bound to accept the lowest priced proposal if that
      proposal is not in the best interest of the University as determined by the University. The University personnel will
      evaluate proposals. In addition to the Evaluation Criteria identified on page 21, the selection of the successful
      respondent for this award, will be based on the other factors listed below:

5|Page
           1. Required Package Elements
           2. Additional Information in General Information Questionnaire
           3. Price

       Consideration may also be given to any additional information and comments if they should increase the benefits
       to the University. Upon completion of the initial review and evaluation of the proposals submitted, selected
       Respondents may be invited to participate in oral presentations.

   2.4 RESPONDENT'S ACCEPTANCE OF EVALUATION METHODOLOGY:
       Submission of a proposal indicates Respondent’s acceptance of the evaluation technique and Respondent’s
       recognition that the University must make some subjective judgments during the evaluation process.

   2.5 COMMITMENT:
       Respondent understands and agrees that this RFP is issued on the anticipated need for requested services and
       that the University has made no representation, written or oral, that any such requirements be furnished under a
       Contract arising from this RFP. Furthermore, Respondent recognizes and understands that any cost borne by the
       Respondent, which arises from Respondent’s performance hereunder, shall be at the sole risk and responsibility
       of Respondent.

   2.6 KEY EVENTS SCHEDULE:
            Posting of RFP for public bidding (ESBD)             September 30, 2019
              Inquiries and Interpretations Deadline             October 4, 2019 @ 5:00 PM CST
              Q and A addendum posting to ESBD                   No later than October 8, 2019
              Proposal Submittal Deadline                        October 15, 2019 at 3:00pm, CST
              Anticipated Award                                  TBD
              Anticipated Start Date                             TBD



SECTION III
GENERAL INFORMATION AND REQUIREMENTS

   3.1 GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS:
       Respondents should carefully read the information contained herein and submit a complete response to all
       requirements and questions as directed. Proposals and any other information submitted by Respondents in
       response to this RFP shall become the property of the University.

       University will not provide compensation to Respondents for any expenses incurred by the Respondent(s) for
       proposal preparation or for any demonstrations that may be made, unless otherwise expressly stated.
       Respondents submit proposals at their own risk and expense. Proposals, which are qualified with conditional
       clauses, or alterations, or items not called for in the RFP documents, or irregularities of any kind, are subject to
       disqualification by the University, at its option.

       Each proposal should be prepared simply and economically, providing a straightforward, concise description of
       your firm's ability to meet the requirements of this RFP. Emphasis should be on completeness, clarity of content,
       responsiveness to the requirements, and an understanding of the University's needs.

    The University makes no guarantee that an award will be made as a result of this RFP, and reserves the right to
    accept or reject any or all proposals, waive any formalities or minor technical inconsistencies, or delete any
    item/requirements from this RFP or resulting contract when deemed to be in the University's best interest.
    Representations made within the proposal will be binding on responding firms. The University will not be bound to
6|Page
      act by any previous communication or proposal submitted by the firms other than this RFP. Firms wishing to
      submit a “No-Response” are requested to return the first page of the Execution of Offer (ref. Exhibit A). The
      returned form should indicate your company's name and include the words “No-Response” in the right-hand
      column. Failure to comply with the requirements contained in this RFP may result in the rejection of your proposal.

  3.2 HISTORICALLY UNDERUTILIZED BUSINESS PLAN:
      In accordance with the State of Texas policy of encouraging the use of Historically Underutilized Businesses
      (“HUBs”) in state procurement, the University shall make a good faith effort to utilize HUBs in contracts for
      construction, goods and services. Owner strives to achieve the annual program goals by contracting directly with
      HUBs or indirectly through subcontracting opportunities. Therefore, any businesses that contract with Owner are
      required to make a good faith effort to award necessary subcontractors to HUBs in accordance with the
      Comptroller of Public Accounts (“CPA”) Texas Administrative Code (“TAC”) Title 34, Part 1, Chapter 20,
      subchapter B. A HUB Subcontracting Plan (“HSP”) is required to be provided with this Solicitation if the
      cost is expected to exceed $100,000.00. See Exhibit B at the end of this document. Additional information
      about the HSP can be found on the CPA website, http://www.window.state.tx.us/procurement/prog/hub/hub-
      subcontracting-plan/. Possible subcontracting opportunities may include but not limited to scope of services
      identified in the Project. If you have any questions related to completing the HSP, Lorena Sanchez,
      Purchasing/HUB Program Manager at (713) 221-8561 or via sanchezl@uhd.edu. Failure to include a completed
      and signed HUB Subcontracting Plan with the proposal will automatically disqualify the proposal.

  3.3 ALTERNATE PROPOSAL:
      University may consider alternate proposals submitted by qualified responsive firms in determining an award.
      Respondents submitting alternate proposals shall clearly identify any exceptions taken to the requirements listed
      herein, and include a detailed description of the alternate(s) proposed. Respondent(s) may suggest additions to
      the requirements with respect to scope of work or services performed. All such suggestions shall be clearly
      defined. Alternate proposals shall be submitted as an attachment to your base proposal (RFP) package.

  3.4 WITHDRAWAL OR MODIFICATION:
      No proposal may be changed, amended, modified by telegram or otherwise, after the same has been submitted or
      filed in response to this solicitation, except for obvious errors in extension.      However, a proposal may be
      withdrawn and resubmitted any time prior to the time set for receipt of proposals. No proposal may be withdrawn
      after the submittal deadline without approval by the University, which shall be based on Respondent’s submittal, in
      writing, of a reason acceptable to the University.

   3.5 VALIDITY PERIOD:
      Proposals are to be valid for the University's acceptance for a minimum of 120 days from the submittal deadline
      date to allow time for evaluation, selection, and any unforeseen delays. Proposals, if accepted, shall remain valid
      for the life of the Contract. At the end of the initial one-hundred-twenty (120) day validity period, proposals will
      automatically roll over for an additional one-hundred-twenty (120) day period unless otherwise specified in writing
      by Respondent.

   3.6 TERMS AND CONDITIONS:
       The General Terms and Conditions (Section V) shall govern any contract issued as a result of this solicitation
       (RFP).

       All Respondents must comply with the requirements listed on Section III General Information and Requirements,
       Section VI Description of Services, and Exhibit A Execution of Offer herein. In the event there is a conflict
       expressed in this document, the provision-requiring respondent to supply the better quality or greater quantity
       shall prevail, or if such conflict does not involve quality or quantity, then interpretation will be in the following order
       of precedence:



7|Page
                               1. Description of Services
                               2. General Terms and Conditions
                               3. Execution of Offer

       By signing the Execution of Offer (Exhibit A) and submitting a proposal, Respondent certifies that any attached
       or referenced terms, conditions, or documents are applicable to this procurement only to the extent that they do
       not conflict with the statutes or Administrative Code of the State of Texas, or the advertised terms and
       conditions, and that they do not impose additional requirements on the University.

SECTION IV
SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS OF REQUEST FOR PROPOSAL

  4.1 FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH REQUIREMENTS: If Respondent fails to comply with any requirements contained
      in this RFP, Respondent’s Proposal will be considered non-responsive and will be rejected. Below are the specific
      requirements of the RFP.
  4.2 SUBMISSION, CONTENT, AND FORMAT OF PROPOSALS:
      4.2.1 University will not accept Proposals received after the Proposal Deadline. University will not accept
            proposals that do not conform to the requirements of this RFP regarding the required format and size.
            Likewise, failure to address all aspects of the Project or the requirements of this RFP in a complete and
            meaningful way will subject a Proposal to rejection. Proposals that are qualified with conditional clauses,
            alterations, items not called for in this RFP, or irregularities of any kind are subject to rejection. Unnecessary
            or extraneous attachments shall NOT be included with Proposals and will not be reviewed, utilized or
            considered by University.
      4.2.2   Each Proposal must be submitted as one (1) original signed document plus one (1) bound hard copy plus
              one (1) electronic copy as a single PDF file less than 15 MB in size. University prefers simple and
              economically produced proposals describing Respondent’s ability to meet the requirements of this RFP in
              a straightforward, concise manner. In evaluating Proposals, emphasis shall be on the quality,
              completeness, clarity of content, responsiveness to requirements, and understanding and anticipation of
                University’s needs.
      4.2.3   Each section must be separated with a divider sheet for quick reference. The cover, table of contents,
              divider sheets, sample documents, incumbency certificate, Bonding Letter, HSP, Execution of Offer and
              Cost and Delivery Proposal do not count as printed pages. University’s published manuals may be
              submitted in their entirety as an attachment or incorporated by reference.
  4.1 EXECUTION OF OFFER: Each Proposal must include the completed, fully executed and acknowledged
      Execution of Offer in form and substance identical to the form attached hereto as EXHIBIT A. Failure to include a
      completed and signed Execution of Offer with this proposal will automatically disqualify the proposal.
  4.2 HUB SUBCONTRACTING PLAN:             Based on an analysis performed by the University’s Purchasing Department,
      subcontracting was determined to be probable for this contract. Therefore, a HSP will be required to be submitted
      with the Proposal. EXHIBIT B contains the HSP form and instructions. If you have any questions about
      completing the HSP, if required, please contact Lorena Sanchez, Purchasing/HUB Program Manager via email at
      sanchezl@uhd.edu.
  4.3 GENERAL INFORMATION QUESTIONNAIRE: The General Information Questionnaire (see section VIII) must be
      completed and submitted with the proposal. In cases where a question does not apply or if unable to respond,
      reference the question number and indicate N/A (Not Applicable) or N/R (No Response), as appropriate. Briefly
      explain your reason when responding N/R.




8|Page
       Respondents are instructed to complete, sign (if required), and return the following documents in the
       following order as their proposal submittal.

       Table of Contents:
       Section 1)…………… Responses to Respondent's Questionnaire (Reference RFP Section VIII)
       Section 2)……………Signed and Completed Execution of Offer (Reference RFP Exhibit A)
       Section 3)…………….Response to Description of Services (Reference RFP Section VI)
       Section 4)…………….Additional/Miscellaneous Information

     ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS:
       None
SECTION V
GENERAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS

   5.1 GENERAL:
       These General Terms and Conditions are an example of what may be a part of any contract which may be
       awarded resulting from this RFP. Irrespective of those contained in this RFP, the University reserves the right to
       require additional or modified contract terms and conditions with the successful entity that are in the University’s
       best interest.

   5.2 DEFINITIONS:
       Whenever the following terms are used in these General Terms and Conditions or in the other Contract
       Documents the intent and meaning shall be interpreted as follows:

       Contract Documents shall mean the documents that form the Contract between the University and the
       Contractor. The Contract Documents consist of the Agreement or Purchase Order

       Conditions of the Contract (this Section V - General Terms and Conditions, and any Additional or Special
       Conditions issued for this RFP), Specifications, Pricing and Delivery Schedule, Execution of Offer, Respondent's
       Questionnaire, and all Addenda and Amendments issued prior to and after the execution of the Contract.

       University shall mean The University of Houston Downtown campus.

       Respondent shall mean the individual, partnership, corporation, or other entity responding to this RFP.

       Contractor shall mean the individual, partnership, corporation, or other entity awarded a Contract for requested
       services under this RFP, in accordance with the terms, conditions, and requirements herein.

       Project shall mean the complete undertaking by Contractor to provide the goods and/or services contemplated by
       the Contract.



  5.3 ENTIRE AGREEMENT:
      The Contract Documents,     for all intents and purposes, are intended as the complete and exclusive statement of
      the agreement between       the University and the Contractor and supersede all prior or contemporaneous
      agreements, negotiations,   course of prior dealings, or oral representations relating to the subject matter hereof.
      The terms and conditions    of any purchase order, agreements, amendments, modifications, or other documents
9|Page
        submitted by either party which conflict with, or in any way purport to amend or add to any of the terms and
        conditions of the Contract are specifically objected to by the other party and shall be of no force or effect, nor shall
        govern in any way the subject matter hereof, unless set forth in writing and signed by both parties.

    5.4 TIME OF PERFORMANCE:
        Time is of the essence in the rendering of services hereunder. Contractor agrees to perform all obligations and
        render services set forth per this Contract in accordance with the schedules herein and as mutually agreed upon
        between the University and Contractor during the term of this Contract.

    5.5 DEFAULT:
        In the event that the Contractor fails to carry out or comply with any of the terms and conditions of the Contract
        with the University, the University may notify the Contractor of such failure or default in writing and demand that
        the failure or default be remedied within ten (10) days; and in the event that the Contractor fails to remedy such
        failure or default within the ten (10) day period, the University shall have the right to cancel the Contract.

        Without limiting the foregoing, the following shall constitute a material breach by the Contractor, upon the
        occurrence of which the Contractor shall immediately notify the University; the Contractor ceases its business
        operation, makes a general assignment for the benefit of creditors, is adjudged bankrupt, becomes insolvent,
        buyout or merger, or non-compliance to governmental requirements.

        The cancellation of the Contract, under any circumstances whatsoever, shall not effect or relieve Contractor from
        any obligation or liability that may have been incurred or will be incurred pursuant to the Contract and such
        cancellation by the University shall not limit any other right or remedy available to the University at law or in equity.

    5.6 FINANCIAL REPORTS AND PAYMENT:
          A. All financial invoices due to the University shall be received no later than 30 calendar days after the close of
             each accounting/calendar period.
          B. University will remit payments based on valid and correct invoices no later than 30 calendar days after the
             later of goods receipt date, service completion date, and invoice receipt date. Invoices must include a
             description of goods or services provided and an itemization of fees and/or expanses requested in a format
             mutually agreed upon by the Contractor and the Contract Coordinator.
          C. University shall have the right to verify the details set forth in Contractors invoices, either before or after
             payment of the University by reasonable actions.

    5.7 CONTRACT AMENDMENTS:
        The Contract may be amended within the Contract period by mutual consent of the parties. No modification or
        amendment to the Contract shall become valid unless in writing and signed by both parties. All correspondence
        regarding modifications or amendments to the Contract must be forwarded to the University’s Contract
        Administration Office for prior review and approval.


    5.8 INDEPENDENT CONTRACTOR STATUS:
         Contractor recognizes that it is engaged as an independent contractor and acknowledges that the University will
         have no responsibility to provide transportation, insurance, taxes or other fringe benefits normally associated with
         employee status. Contractor, in accordance with its status as an independent contractor, covenants and agrees
         that it shall conduct itself consistent with such status, that it will neither hold itself out as nor claim to be an officer,
         partner, employee or agent of the University by reason hereof, and that it will not by reason hereof make any
         claim, demand or application to or for any right or privilege applicable to an officer, partner, employee or agent of
         the University, including, but not limited to, unemployment insurance benefits, social security coverage or
         retirement benefits. Contractor hereby agrees to make its own arrangements for any of such benefits as it may
         desire and agrees that it is responsible for all income taxes required by applicable law.



10 | P a g e
    5.9 GENERAL RULES AND PROCEDURES FOR PURCHASING:
        Respondent shall comply with Texas Government Code Section 2155.004 provision regarding conflicts of interest,
        prohibition on certain bids and contracts, and anti-trust laws.

        A state agency may not accept a bid or award a contract that includes proposed financial participation by a person
        who received compensation from the agency to participate in preparing the specifications or request for proposals
        on which the bid or contract is based.

        Under Section 2155.004, Government Code, the vendor certifies that the individual or business entity named in
        this bid or contract is not ineligible to receive the specified contract and acknowledges that this contract may be
        terminated and payment withheld if this certification is inaccurate.

    5.10 UNIVERSITY’S RIGHT TO AUDIT:
        At any time during the term of this Contract and for a period of four (4) years thereafter the University or a duly
        authorized audit representative of the University, or the State of Texas, at its expense and at reasonable times,
        reserves the right to audit Contractor's records and books relevant to all services provided under this Contract. In
        the event such an audit by the University reveals any errors/overpayments by the University, Contractor shall
        refund the University the full amount of such overpayments within thirty (30) days of such audit findings, or the
        University, at its option, reserves the right to deduct such amounts owing the University from any payments due to
        the Contractor.

    5.11 ACCESS TO DOCUMENTS:
        To the extent applicable to this procurement, in accordance with Public Law 99-499 under TEFRA, Contractor
        agrees to allow, during and for a period of not less than four (4) years after the Contract term, access to this
        Contract and its books, documents, and records; and contracts between Contractor and its subcontractors or
        related organizations, including books, documents and records relating to same, by the Comptroller General of the
        United States, and their duly authorized representatives.

    5.12 TITLE AND RISK OF LOSS:
        For goods to be provided by Contractor hereunder, if any, the title and risk of loss of the goods shall not pass to
        the University.

    5.13 ACCEPTANCE OF PRODUCTS AND SERVICES:
        All products furnished and all services performed under this Contract shall be to the satisfaction of the University
        and in accordance with the specifications, terms, and conditions of the Contract. The University reserves the right
        to inspect the products furnished or the services performed, and to determine the quality, acceptability, and fitness
        of such products or services.

    5.14 SALES AND USE TAX:
        Section 151.311, Tax Code permits the purchase free of state sales and use taxes of tangible personal property to
        be incorporated into realty in the performance of a contract for an improvement to realty for certain exempt entities
        such as UH System.

    5.15 INDEMNIFICATION:
        Contractor agrees to hold UH System, the University of Houston Downtown, its regents, officers, agents and
        employees harmless and free from any loss, damage, or expense arising out of any occurrence relating to this
        Contract or its performance and will indemnify UH System and the University, its regents, officers, agents,
        employees, and students and assigns against any damage or claim of any type arising from the acts or omission
        (including negligence) of the Contractor, its agents, employees, subcontractors, and/or assigns.

          A. CONTRACTOR SHALL PROTECT AND INDEMNIFY THE UNIVERSITY FROM AND AGAINST ALL
             CLAIMS, DAMAGES, JUDGMENTS AND LOSS ARISING FROM INFRINGEMENT OR ALLEGED
             INFRINGEMENT OF ANY UNITED STATES PATENT, OR COPYRIGHT, ARISING BY OR OUT OF ANY
11 | P a g e
               OF THE SERVICES PERFORMED OR GOODS PROVIDED HEREUNDER OR THE USE BY
               CONTRACTOR, OR BY THE UNIVERSITY AT THE DIRECTION OF CONTRACTOR, OF ANY ARTICLE
               OR MATERIAL, PROVIDED THAT UPON BECOMING AWARE OF A SUIT OR THREAT OF SUIT FOR
               PATENT OR COPYRIGHT INFRINGEMENT, THE UNIVERSITY SHALL PROMPTLY NOTIFY
               CONTRACTOR AND CONTRACTOR SHALL BE GIVEN FULL OPPORTUNITY TO NEGOTIATE A
               SETTLEMENT. CONTRACTOR DOES NOT WARRANT AGAINST INFRINGEMENT BY REASON OF THE
               UNIVERSITY'S DESIGN OF ARTICLES OR THE USE THEREOF IN COMBINATION WITH OTHER
               MATERIALS OR IN THE OPERATION OF ANY PROCESS. IN THE EVENT OF LITIGATION, THE
               UNIVERSITY AGREES TO COOPERATE REASONABLY WITH CONTRACTOR AND PARTIES SHALL BE
               ENTITLED, IN CONNECTION WITH ANY SUCH LITIGATION, TO BE REPRESENTED BY COUNSEL AT
               THEIR OWN EXPENSE.

          B. The indemnities contained herein shall survive the termination of any agreement or purchase order for any
             reason whatsoever.

    5.16 FORCE MAJEURE:
        If either the University or Contractor (individually, a “Party”) is delayed at any time in the performance of its
        obligations hereunder by economic industry-wide strikes, fire, unusual delay in deliveries, unavoidable casualties,
        or other causes reasonably beyond such Party’s control and which could not have been reasonably anticipated by
        such Party, then the time for performance of such Party shall be extended by one (1) day for each day of such
        delay.

    5.17 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST:
        It is understood and agreed that no benefits, payments or considerations received by Contractor for the
        performance of services associated with and pertinent to the resultant Contract shall accrue, directly or indirectly,
        to any employees, elected or appointed officers or representatives, or any other person identified as agents of, or
        who are by definition an employee of, the State.

        Respondent shall also disclose:

               A. Any relationship, whether by relative, business associate, capital funding agreement or by any other such
                  kinship which exists between respondent and an employee of any UH System component.
               B. Whether respondent has been an employee of any UH System component within the immediate twelve
                  (12) months prior to the RFP response.
               C. Whether any member of the Board of Regents of the University, or the Executive Officers of the University
                  or its component institutions, has a financial interest, directly or indirectly, in the transaction that is the
                  subject of the contract.

        All such disclosures will be subject to administrative review and approval prior to the University entering into any
        contract with respondent.

    5.18 NON-DISCLOSURE:
        Contractor and the University acknowledge that they or their employees may, in the performance of the resultant
        Contract, come into the possession of proprietary or confidential information owned by or in the possession of the
        other. Neither party shall use any such information for its own benefit or make such information available to any
        person, firm, corporation, or other organization, regardless of whether directly or indirectly affiliated with Contractor
        or the University, unless (i) required by law, (ii) by order of any court or tribunal, (iii) such disclosure is necessary
        for the assertion of a right, or
        defense of an assertion of a right, by one party against the other party hereto, or (iv) such information has been
        acquired from other sources.




12 | P a g e
    5.19 PUBLICITY:
        Contractor agrees that it shall not publicize this Contract or disclose, confirm or deny any details thereof to third
        parties or use any photographs or video recordings of the University's employees or use the University's name in
        connection with any sales promotion or publicity event without the prior express written approval of the University.

    5.20 SEVERABILITY:
        In case any provision hereof, or of any resulting agreement or purchase order, shall, for any reason, be held
        invalid or unenforceable in any respect, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other provision
        thereof, and this Contract shall be construed as if such invalid or unenforceable provision had not been included
        herein.

    5.21 NON-WAVIER OF DEFAULTS:
        No delay or omission by either of the parties hereto in exercising any right or power accruing upon the
        non-compliance or failure of performance by the other party hereto of any of the provisions of this Contract shall
        impair any such right or power or be construed to be a waiver thereof. A waiver by either of the parties hereto of
        any of the covenants, conditions or agreements thereof to be performed by the other party hereto shall not be
        construed to be a waiver of any subsequent breach thereof or of any other covenant, condition or agreement
        therein contained.

    5.22 ASSIGNMENT:
        The agreement with Contractor is a personal service contract for the services of Contractor, and Contractor's
        interest in such agreement, duties hereunder and/or fees due hereunder may not be assigned or delegated to a
        third party. The benefits and burdens of this agreement are, however, assignable by the University.

    5.23 ASSIGNMENT OF OVERCHARGE CLAIMS:
        Contractor hereby assigns to the University any and all claims for overcharges associated with the Contract arising
        under the antitrust laws of the United States, 15 U.S.C.A., Sec. 1 et seq. (1973), or arising under the antitrust laws
        of the State of Texas, Texas Business and Commerce Code Annotated, Sec. 15.01, et seq. (1967).

    5.24 PATENT AND COPYRIGHT:
        Contractor shall pay for any royalties, license fees, copyrights or trade and service marks required to perform the
        services required by this Contract.

    5.25 TEXAS PUBLIC INFORMATION ACT:
        University considers all information, documentation and other materials requested to be submitted in response to
        this solicitation to be of a non-confidential and/or non-proprietary nature and therefore shall be subject to public
        disclosure under the Texas Public Information Act (Texas Government Code, Chapter 552.001, et seq) after a
        contract is awarded. Respondents are hereby notified that the University strictly adheres to all statutes, court
        decisions, and opinions of the Texas Attorney General regarding the disclosure of RFP information.

    5.26 FREEDOM OF ACCESS AND USE OF FACILITIES:
        The Contractor's employees shall have reasonable and free access during normal business hours to use only
        those facilities of the University that are necessary to perform services under this Contract and shall have no right
        of access to any other facilities of the University.

    5.27 OBSERVANCE OF UNIVERSITY RULES AND REGULATIONS:
         Respondent agrees that at all times its employees will observe and comply with all policies and regulations of the
         University while on University premises, including but not limited to parking, safety and security regulations.

     5.28 NO BOYCOTT OF ISRAEL:
         Respondent certifies and verifies that it: (i) does not boycott Israel and (ii) will not boycott Israel during the term of
         any agreements resulting from this proposal. See Exhibit C at the end of this document.
13 | P a g e
    5.29 SECTION HEADINGS:
         All section headings are for convenience of reference only and are not intended to define or limit the scope of any
        provisions of this RFP.

    5.30 NOTICES:
         Any notices required or permitted to be given shall be in writing and effective upon receipt and shall be sent by
        certified mail, return receipt requested, postage pre-paid, addressed as follows:


                                              University of Houston Downtown
                                                     Purchasing Office
                                              One Main Street, Suite 970-South
                                                    Houston TX 77002


    5.31 GOVERNING LAW:
        This Contract, including, without limitation, this RFP and any resulting agreement or purchase order, shall be
        construed and governed by the laws of the State of Texas.

    5.32 ANTI-TRUST LAWS:
        Respondent shall certify that neither the respondent nor the firm, corporation, partnership or University
        represented by the respondent, or anyone acting for such firm, corporation, or institution has violated the antitrust
        laws of this state, codified in the Texas Free Enterprise and Antitrust Act set forth in Chapter 15 of the Business
        and Commerce Code, or the Federal antitrust laws, nor have they directly or indirectly communicated the bid to a
        competitor or other person engaged in the same line of business.

    5.33 CERTIFICATION OF FRANCHISE TAX STATUS:
        Respondents are advised that UH System cannot pay vendors who are delinquent in paying state franchise taxes
        pursuant to Texas Government Code Chapter 2107.008. A corporate respondent shall certify that it is not
        currently delinquent in the payment of, is exempt from, or is an out-of-state corporation that is not subject to any
        State of Texas franchise taxes. The respondent agrees that each subcontractor and supplier under contract will
        also provide a certification of franchise tax status.

    5.33 DELINQUENCY IN PAYING CHILD SUPPORT:
        Under Section 231.006, Texas Family Code, a child support obligor who is more than 30 days delinquent in paying
        child support, and a business entity in which the obligor is a sole proprietor, partner, shareholder, or University with
        an University interest of at least 25 percent is not eligible to receive payments from state funds under a contract to
        provide property, materials or services; or receive a state - funded grant or loan until all arrears have been paid; or
        the obligor is in compliance with a written repayment agreement or court order as to any existing delinquency. The
        respondent certifies that the individual or business entity named in this contract, bid, or application is not ineligible
        to receive the specified grant, loan, or payment and acknowledges that this contract may be terminated and
        payment may be withheld if this certification is inaccurate.




14 | P a g e
SECTION VI
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS - SCOPE OF WORK

CLASS 915-25, 961-75

6.1 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
    The University of Houston-Downtown (UHD) is seeking the services of a qualified vendor to provide a proposal for
    closed captioning services for approximately 200 hours of material. The vendor is required to include a detailed price
    list of available services, list of requirements from UHD, and any other relevant information.

      Experience and Qualifications:
      Describe services your organization has provided in the past year that demonstrates your organization’s capability to
      carry out the proposed services. Include the nature of the services provided, scope of activities, and the organization
      for which the service was provided. Also, provide any experience in providing similar services to public entities.

      References:

      See section VIII.


6.2 SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS AND SERVICES TO BE PERFORMED:

      Scope of Work:

      The contractor shall provide closed captioning services for approximately 200 hours of material per year.
      Languages to be captioned include, but are not limited to: Arabic, Chinese, French and Spanish. The contract
      shall be for three years with one year options to renew for a 4th and 5th year consecutively.


      Vendor requirements:

        1. Vendor must be able to caption 3rd party videos.

        2. Vendor must be able to caption MP3 files and Sound Cloud audio.

        3. Vendor must be compatible with Media Site, YouTube plug-in and Blackboard Ally.

        4. Vendor must be able to caption: Arabic, Chinese, French and Spanish content.

        5. Vendor must include standard turnaround time and rate as well as any increased rates for faster turnaround
            times.

        6. Vendor must include all available languages for captioning as well as any increased rates for specific
            languages.



6.2    ORAL PRESENTATION/WRITTEN CLARIFICATION:
        As part of the evaluation process, the University reserves the right to request the Respondent to provide written
        clarification or make a formal, oral presentation. The UHD point of contact as identified within this RFP shall
        request the written clarification or schedule any presentations required. Each Respondent should be prepared to
15 | P a g e
        discuss and substantiate all areas of its proposal. This is a fact finding and explanation session only and does not
        include negotiation. In conducting discussions, there shall be no disclosure of any information derived from
        proposals submitted by competing Respondents. The Respondent shall be responsible for all of its costs
        associated with the presentation. Oral presentations are an option of the University and may or may not be
        conducted with none, some or all of the respondents.

  6.3 CONFIDENTIAL/PROPRIETARY INFORMATION
       If any material in the Proposal is considered by Respondent to be confidential or proprietary information,
       Respondent must clearly mark the applicable pages of Respondent’s submission to indicate each claim of
       confidentiality. Additionally, Respondent must include a statement on company letterhead identifying all Proposal
       section(s) and page(s) that have been marked as confidential. Merely making a blanket claim that the entire
       Proposal is protected from disclosure because it contains some proprietary information is not acceptable, and will
       make the entire Proposal subject to release under the Texas Public Information Act. By submitting a Proposal,
       each Respondent agrees to reproduction by the State of Texas, UHD and other State agencies, without cost or
       liability, of any copyrighted portions of Respondent’s proposal or other information submitted by Respondent to
       comply with any Legislative Budget Board reporting requirements or other reporting requirements mandated by
       law.

   6.4 PAYMENTS:
       Payments will be made no later than 30 calendar days of invoice receipt which are based on set-up, subscription,
       marker research services and analyzing fees. Invoices must include an itemized description of services based on
       services agreement. University shall have the right to verify the details set forth in the Contractor’s invoices, either
       before or after payment to the University by reasonable actions.

   6.5 UNIVERSITY RESPONSIBILITIES:
       The University will assist the contractor by performing the following actions:

        • After contract has been awarded the primary contact at UHD campus will be Dr. Hope Pamplin.
          Phone # (713) 221-8430. Email address: pamplinh@uhd.edu UHD will directly contact with the
          vendors representative if there is any changes in contact information.


    6.6 FEES:
        (____________________) Provide a fee schedule or provide an itemized line item breakdown for each service or
        merchandise. For example, you may want to include a line item for;

        Standard Turnaround Time          $______________
        Rush Turnaround Time              $______________
        Weekend costs                     $______________
        Holiday costs                     $______________
        Alternate languages, Etc….        $______________


    6.7 REFUNDS:
        The University will establish per terms of contract.

    6.8 TAXES:
        The Contractor will comply and pay all taxes applicable under Federal, State and local laws for the operation
        software license.

    6.9 INSURANCE AND LEGAL REQUIREMENTS:


16 | P a g e
        The Contractor must carry applicable insurance and provide annual certificate of coverage to the Contract
        Coordinator. The Contractor must comply with all applicable permits and licenses and all requirements of
        applicable laws, regulations, and standards required for the operation of software license.

    6.10 COMPLIANCE WITH UNIVERSITY OF HOUSTON DOWNTOWN PREMISE RULES:
        The Contractor agrees that at all times its employees will observe and comply with all policies and regulations of
        the University, including but not limited to parking, safety and security regulations. This contract requires
        compliance with all University regulations and practices for services provided on the University premises. The
        Contractor, its agents, employees or subcontractors are made aware of, fully informed about, and in full
        compliance with its obligations under the following regulations, unless otherwise exempt:
            • The Contractor shall comply with all applicable rules including without limitation, those relative to
              environmental quality, safety, fire prevention and noise.
            • The University is a smoke-free institution. Smoking, is prohibited in any University building or facility unless
              otherwise posted.
            • The Contractor has the right to use but shall have no right of access to any other facilities.
            • The Contractor is responsible to ensure all its employees, personnel, or representatives entering onto UH
              facilities abide by these provisions.

      6.11 TRANSITION PLAN:
        The Contractor (including the incumbent) shall submit a transition plan addressing whether transition would be on
        a designated date or in predetermined time phases.

      6.12 SPECIAL SERVICES:
        The Contractor should propose any special services such as scholarship funds, special promotions or product
        availability for donations during the term of the contract.

      6.13 Contract Coordinator:

           6.13.1   All services performed shall be subject to review, coordination and approval by the contract
                    coordinator. The contract coordinator will, in all cases, determine the quality, acceptability, and
                    appropriateness of the work provided under contract. The contract coordinator will decide all
                    questions which may arise as to the fulfillment of the Contract on the part of the Contractor and the
                    contract coordinator’s determination and decision will be final and conclusive.

           6.13.2   In the event services performed by the Contractor do not conform to the requirements of this Contract
                    as determined by the contract coordinator, the University, at its option, may request the Contractor to
                    adjust service schedules, product selection or add/delete/revise locations of service to the University.
                    All adjustments or requests will be as mutually agreed upon between the Contractor and the
                    University.




17 | P a g e
SECTION VII
INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS

Required Coverage: For the duration of the agreement, for any renewal terms, and for purposes of indemnification
obligations that are specified to survive termination or expiration of the agreement, Vendor shall obtain, at its sole expense
and at no cost to the University, the following coverage and shall maintain such coverage in full force and effect:

           7.1.1       Commercial General Liability Insurance including operations, contractual liability, and products liability
                       in the combined single limit of not less than one million dollars ($1,000,000) per occurrence and two
                       million dollars ($2,000,000) in the aggregate;

           7.1.2       Professional Liability or Errors & Omission Insurance (For Professional Services only) of not less than
                       five million dollars ($5,000,000) per occurrence for professional services i.e., Physician, Lawyer,
                       Architect, Engineer, other “Professional” or a Consultant representing his own firm;

           7.1.3       If, during the Term, Contractor will enter University property, Contractor shall also maintain the
                       following insurance:

                       •   Workers' Compensation and Employers Liability Insurance covering all individuals who provide
                           Services pursuant to the agreement at the request of the Contractor, at the statutory limits in
                           effect as of the Effective Date of the Contract and as modified from time to time by the regulatory
                           body or insurance carrier charged with administering Workers' Compensation for the State of
                           Texas. Employer's Liability in amounts of not less than one million dollars ($1,000,000) per
                           accident, one million dollars ($1,000,000) for disease (policy limit), and one million ($1,000,000)
                           for disease (per person).

                       •   Commercial Automobile Liability Insurance in the combined single limit of not less than one million
                           dollars ($1,000,000) or in the event Contractor does not own automobiles, Contractor agrees to
                           maintain coverage for Hired & Non-Owned Auto Liability, which may be satisfied by way of
                           endorsement to the Commercial General Liability Policy or a separate Commercial Auto Liability
                           Policy;

           7.1.4       University may require additional insurance coverages and/or limits depending on the nature and
                       scope of the contract.

           7.1.5       Providing and maintaining insurance coverage is a material term of this solicitation. Contractor shall
                       provide Certificates of Insurance evidencing the Insurance Requirements no later than ten (10) days
                       prior to the start of work and replacement or renewal certificates no less than thirty (30) days prior to
                       the expiration of any such insurance. Insurance coverages must be written by companies authorized
                       and admitted to do business in the State of Texas and rated A-, VII or better by A.M. Best Company.
                       Contractor shall provide the University a full and complete copy of any insurance policy promptly upon
                       request by the University, and without charge to the University.

                   Insurance Endorsements. The University shall be an Additional Insured on the Comprehensive General
                   Liability, Commercial Liability and Automobile Liability policies. The Workers Compensation Policy shall
                   list the University as an Alternate Employer. Subrogation against the University must be waived for all
                   policies. Contractor’s insurance coverage must be primary and non-contributory for all policies. A 30 day
                   notice of cancellation or material changes must be provided to the University for all policies.

                   Effect of Indemnification Obligations. No provision, term, or condition in the Contract regarding
                   indemnification obligations shall be construed to limit the application of insurance procured by the Vendor
                   in accordance with requirements set forth in the Contract.

18 | P a g e
SECTION VIII
GENERAL INFORMATION QUESTIONNAIRE

  Please answer the following questions as a part of your proposal response. Type the question before your answer. In
  answering a question, you may refer to other sections or exhibits of your proposal by reference to the page where the
  information may be founded. If the answer to one question appears in the answer to another, you may refer to your
  other answer. Answers should be sufficiently detailed to make unnecessary any further inquiries by the University.

      Failure to respond completely to any of these questions may result in the entire proposal being rejected.

                                             RESPONDENT QUESTIONNAIRE

  Respondents are requested to submit a complete response to each of the below listed items. Responses requiring
  additional space should be brief and submitted as an attachment to your proposal package. Please reference each
  response by its item number indicated below.

  Company Profile
   1. Legal Name of the Company:
      Address of Office that would be providing service:
      Number of years in Business:
      Type of Operation (i.e. Individual, Partnership, and Corporation):
      Number of Employees:
      Annual Sales Volume:

    2. A Statement that you will provide a copy of your company's financial statements for the past two (2) years, if
       requested by the University.

    3. Provide a Financial rating of your company and any documentation (such as a Dunn and Bradstreet analysis),
       which indicates the financial stability of your company.

    4. State whether your company is currently for sale or involved in any transaction to expand or to become acquired by
       another business entity? If so, please explain the impact both in organizational and directional terms.

    5. Provide any details of all past or pending litigation or claims filed against your company that would affect your
       company's performance under a Contract with the University.

    6. Is your company currently in default on any loan agreement or financing agreement with any bank, financial
       institution, or other entity? If yes, specify date(s), details, circumstances, and prospects for resolution.

    7. Provide a customer reference list of no less than three (3) organizations with which Respondent currently has
       contracts with and/or has previously provided Closed Captioning Services of equal type and scope within the past
       five (5) years. A minimum of two (2) of these references must be from Higher Education clients or other State,
       County or City governments that use similar services or products. Reference list to include, company name, contact
       person, and telephone number, contract description, length of business relationship and any special requirements.

    8. Does any relationship exist whether by relative, business associate, capital funding agreement or any other such
       kinship exist between your company and any the University employee? If yes, please explain.

  Transition to Contract

    9. Provide a statement of the transition requirements to implement the contract, any unique benefits, and other
       considerations. Briefly address the requirements, objectives and activities in Section VI.

19 | P a g e
    10. Provide an estimate of the earliest start date following execution of a contract.

    11. Submit a work plan with key dates and milestones. Your response should include:

          a. Identification of tasks to be performed and/or equipment to be provided
          b. Time frames to perform the identified tasks
          c. List any compliance requirements and strategies for federal, state and local governmental regulations,
             insurance requirements including worker’s compensation, licenses and permits, if any and any other
             regulations as appropriate.

   12. Describe the strategy and controls that will be utilized to assure products and services provided, pricing and terms,
       project timeline, maintenance support and training. Include samples of reports and documents if appropriate.

   13. What difficulties do you anticipate in serving the University and how do you plan to manage these?              What
       assistance will you require from the University?

   14. Describe your company's quality assurance program, what are your company’s requirements, and how are they
       measured?

General Requirements

   15. Proposer will provide summary resumes for its proposed key personnel who will be providing services under the
       Agreement with University, including their specific experiences with similar service projects, and number of
       years of employment with Proposer.

  Miscellaneous

   16. Provide a list of any goods or services not specified in this RFP that your company would provide to the University.

   17. Provide details regarding any special services or product characteristics, or other benefits offered, or advantages in
       the University selecting your company.




20 | P a g e
SECTION IX
EVALUATION CRITERIA PROCESS

All proposals will be evaluated by appointed representatives of the University in accordance with the following procedures:

The Appointed Representatives of the Evaluation Committee will evaluate the vendor written responses on the criteria set
forth under General Requirements - Description of Services - Scope of Work in Section VI. Those responses which pass
ALL Description of Services - General Requirements - Scope of Work will be further evaluated.

The Evaluations will take place separately and without discussion among Evaluation Committee members.

If Oral Presentations are required, a series of questions will be prepared by the Evaluation Committee and presented to
each Short Listed Respondent by a Purchasing representative. Additionally, a set schedule will be made available from
which a Presentation date will be chosen by Respondent.

If the Evaluation Committee determines that Oral Presentations are not required the determination of the preferred
Respondent will be communicated to the Purchasing Department.

Respondents are strongly encouraged to deliver their responses identifying the criteria listed below and explaining how the
service meets or exceeds the criteria (e.g. “Criteria 1 – Our service meets the criteria by providing…”). THIS IS CRITICAL
TO THE EVALUATION PROCESS. If possible, responses should be in the same order as the criteria.

        The evaluation criteria is as follows:

         Evaluation Criteria                                                                     Weights – 100%

         Turnaround Time                                                                         25%

         Extent of Available Languages                                                           25%

         References                                                                              25%

         Price                                                                                   25%



         Total                                                                                   100%




21 | P a g e
SECTION X
EXHIBITS
                         EXHIBIT A
                    EXECUTION OF OFFER




                         EXHIBIT B
               HUB SUBCONTRACTING PLAN (HSP)


                             HUB
                       Subcontracting Plan




22 | P a g e
