Request for Proposal (RFP) for Software Solution to
    Automate the City of Durham Employee
         Performance Evaluation Program
                 City of Durham

                      March 8, 2018
                                         Table of Contents
General Information
10. Date of RFP.
20. Project Manager and Contact with City; Questions about this RFP.

Description of Project and Nature of RFP
30. Project.
40. Scope of Work.
45. City IT Standards
46. Cloud Computing Security Requirements.
50. Compensation Amount and Schedule.
60. Definitions in this RFP.
70. Contract.
80. Trade Secrets and Confidentiality.
90. Bonds.
100. Insurance.
110. Discretion of the City.

Schedule
120. Schedule.
130. Keeping Proposals Open.
140. Deadline to Submit Proposals.

Getting More Information on the Project and RFP Process
170. Updates and revisions to RFP.

Evaluation Criteria
180. Evaluation Criteria.
240. Contents of Proposal.

Cover Letter with Proposal
250. Cover letter.
260. Addendums.

How to submit a proposal
270.   How to submit a proposal.
280.   Format.
290.   Alternative Proposals.
300.   Candidate to Bear Expense; No Claims against City.
310.   Reserved.
320.   Notice Under the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA).




RFP for Software Solution to Automate the City of Durham Employee Performance Evaluation Program page 2
Attachments
Exhibit A – Model Services Contract
Exhibit B – Procurement Forms
Exhibit C – City of Durham Insurance Requirements




RFP for Software Solution to Automate the City of Durham Employee Performance Evaluation Program page 3
10. Date of RFP: March 8, 2018

20. Project Manager and Contact with City; Questions about this RFP. Direct questions and concerns to:

        Attn: Brian Green
        Technology Solutions Department
        101 City Hall – 4th Floor
        Durham, NC 27701-3329

        Phone: 919-560-4122 ext. 33203
        Email: brian.green@durhamnc.gov

If you have concerns about this RFP that you believe are not being addressed by the project manager,
please contact

        Kerry Goode, TS Director/CIO
        Technology Solutions Department
        Phone: 919- 560-4122 ext. 33248
        Email: kerry.goode@durhamnc.gov


                             DESCRIPTION OF PROJECT AND NATURE OF RFP

30. Project.
The City of Durham (hereinafter “City”), desires to procure and implement a software solution to support
a new Employee Performance Evaluation Program (hereinafter “EPEP”). Qualified firms, contractors,
software vendors or entities, that meet the requirements set forth in this Request for Proposals
(hereinafter “RFP”), and are capable of providing the services requested, are encouraged to participate.
The tangible deliverables expected include, but are not limited to, providing the City with:

       Real-time communication venue between employee and supervisor; Software that is web
        accessible and mobile friendly.

       A solution to support a five (5) level rating system, pre-populated or customizable with
        descriptions of the performance expected for each rating level.

       A solution to support the automatic calculation of an overall numeric score that can be weighted
        and is associated with defined rating levels.

       A library of competencies from which standards can be selected and developed as applicable to
        various job families and levels of responsibility

       A library of assistance for performance related activities (i.e. how-to’s on coaching, setting
        standards, providing constructive feedback, conducting an appraisal discussion).




RFP for Software Solution to Automate the City of Durham Employee Performance Evaluation Program page 4
       Reporting and data extraction tools to allow tracking trends and analysis of performance data.
        Reports should be able to identify employees that are in an Appeal Process, Correctional Action
        Plan, who are current on leave, and/or who have completed their annual appraisal.

       Data dashboards that allow tracking and analysis of performance data.

       Performance software that will establish a greater connection between employees’ performance
        standards and the City’s Strategic Plan and Values.

       Software that is “user friendly” for all City employees: from front-line Laborers, to professional
        Accountants, to management level employees such as Department Directors.


40. Scope of Work. The following section details the scope of work and requirements of the City of
Durham but is meant as an initial guide for the proposal. The City is looking for a comprehensive and best
practice solution to implement a software solution to automate the City of Durham employee
performance evaluation program. Respond with “Yes”, “No” or “Future Release” in the column titled
“Included” to indicate if the feature is present in the current release.

REQUIRED FUNCTIONALITY
                 Description                                          Included                   Comments
1. Web based technology compatible with mobile
platforms
2. Proposed PM system will have pre-populated
performance factors and HR will have access to
customizable libraries for updating factors as City
priorities/goals evolve.
3. Proposed PM System will have real-time reporting
with customizable set-up and selection criteria
generated in a variety of exportable formats.
4. Proposed PM System allows HR to assist Supervisor
and Employee draft their performance plans in the
beginning of the appraisal year.
5. Proposed system will develop position descriptions
(Performance Plans) at the work group or individual
level that will more specifically describe the duties and
responsibilities of each unique position.
6. Ability to support a five (5) level employee
performance rating system: Exemplary, Highly
Effective, Effective, Minimally Effective, and Ineffective.




RFP for Software Solution to Automate the City of Durham Employee Performance Evaluation Program page 5
7. Proposed PM System will have a real-time
communication portal between employee and
supervisor, to facilitate "the conversation." Supervisors
and employees can make comments but neither will be
able to delete any information added or saved by the
other.
8. Software should include ability to attach MS Office
and .pdf files as well as JPEG/PNG to defined job
measures: software should allow users to attach
supplemental documentation.
9. Proposed PM System will have a Corrective Action
Plan (CAP).
10. Proposed PM System will have an Appeal Process
that will be attached to a scheduled/trackable start and
end date. The entire process should be accessible to
the initiating Department and HR.
11. Software should include ability to support different
performance year cycles, and off-cycle performance
reviews (new hire probationary reviews, transfers, and
promotions); with system prompts to update Job
Factors and Objectives based on changed job
responsibilities.
12. Proposed PM overall rating will be calculated as a
numeric value, combining scores of objectives and
factors. The applicable weights of objectives will be
higher than those of factors, but will be driven by the
system not by an individual supervisor's discretion.
13. Proposed PM System will have customizable
evaluations by Employee Categories with pre-selected
performance factors that will be drafted by Human
Resources.
14. Software must be able to house/upload the
following EPEP forms: City Position Descriptions, EPEP
Employee Manual, EPEP Supervisor Manual, EPEP
Management Manual, EPEP Police Manual, EPEP Fire
Manual and EPEP Executive Manual.
15. Multi-departmental concurrent access (we have 25
departments).
16. Ability to download into and upload from MS Office
products such as Outlook, Excel and Word.




RFP for Software Solution to Automate the City of Durham Employee Performance Evaluation Program page 6
17. Browser based reports with customizable set-ups,
including sorts, groupings, and selection criteria
generated in a variety of exportable formats. Graphical
representations, drill-down capabilities, performance
measure indexing capabilities, and automated
scheduling (please provide print screen examples).
18. Browser based reports available for users viewing
from outside the City’s network:
• Ability to display organizational cascading goals, i.e.
individual, team, department, organizational.
• Ability to identify performance trends across City,
including key strengths and weaknesses, and
organizational skills.
• Ability to monitor employee ratings over time and
easily assess employee rating distributions across the
City.
• Ability to search and display City talent pools along
with employee profiles based on defined criteria.
19. Data visualization capabilities to include ability to
produce charts, graphs, multiple dash boarding
components, and multiple output formats (i.e. such as
completed appraisals throughout City) please provide
examples.
20. Ability to retrieve/export data for Ad-Hoc Reporting
purposes: software must provide a reporting
mechanism so that users can use the most current data
to create ad-hoc queries and reports (i.e. CSV, Excel).
21. Software must be equipped with on-line training
tutorials on how to conduct performance evaluation
tasks such as drafting SMART measures and help
buttons/support functions on how to use the software.
22. Writing Assistant Feature: The software provides a
pre-populated and customizable internal library to
assist supervisors in selecting appropriate wording
through sample statements to capture performance
messages when providing feedback and coaching.
Feature should aid supervisor in using legally sound
wording.
23. Software must have the ability to schedule full and
incremental backups of all business and configuration
data.




RFP for Software Solution to Automate the City of Durham Employee Performance Evaluation Program page 7
24. Software must provide an Employee Profile
Feature, including an editable employee profile page
that contains the following: current position, work
history, education, competencies, responsibilities,
skills, job specifications, and position description.
Reporting on these items should be available and
profile skills, etc. should be searchable across the City.
25. Software should have built-in library of skills,
competencies, and certifications in order to maintain
consistency throughout City. The content of these
libraries should be able to be accessible through a
dropdown selection for consistency. HR should be able
to add additional options if not available in dropdown
to maintain consistency in naming convention. This
data would need to be retrievable also in format that
could be imported into other HRIS systems.
26. Software must have the following or similar EPEP
forms: EPEP Evaluation Form, Coaching Form,
Employee Self-Appraisal, Corrective Action Plan (CAP)
Form, Learning and Development Plan Forms,
Supervisor Critique Form and Peer Critique Form.
27. Software should include some Goal Management
feature to allow the City to create, distribute, record,
update, and track goals, programs, project tracking,
and action items through software.
28. Software should include ability to provide an audit
trail with user id and date/time stamp for
adds/changes/deletes made to application elements
such as employee feedback and employee profile page.
29. Software should include ability to allow users the
capability to save information and to return later to
complete and/or update applications (auto save
preferred).
30. Software should provide workflow capability to
trigger email notification/reminders to hierarchy of
users. Multiple workflows should be available
depending on the type of evaluation process being
created.
31. Software should provide hierarchical security access
and viewing/approval workflow dependent upon
reporting lines and/or specified permissions.




RFP for Software Solution to Automate the City of Durham Employee Performance Evaluation Program page 8
32. Standardized interface with the following systems
(please provide details and examples of integration
process with each system): Munis (HRIS System),
Cornerstone (LMS System) and NeoGov (Applicant
Tracking and Onboarding System).
33. System should have capability to export employee
final performance ratings into City’s HRIS system to
process annual performance merit increases in line
with City compensation policies (i.e. lump sums at
maximum pay, percentages based on policy guidelines).
OPTIONAL FUNCTIONALITY
                       Description                                    Included                   Comments
1. Historical data integration/migration

2. Prefer a system that provides a Voice Recognition
feature, allowing user to dictate a document hands-
free.
3. Applicant tracking and Onboarding functionality or
module as an option



45. City On Premise IT Standards. The City of Durham has Information Technology Standards for
governance and regulatory compliance for applications within its portfolio.

         Category                                         Standard

                              Endpoint Standards
         Desktop / laptop / workstation                   Lenovo (Current)
         Desktop / laptop / workstation                   Dell specialty computers
         Desktop / laptop / workstation                   MAC
         Desktop / laptop / workstation                   Other
         Toughbook                                        Panasonic
         Toughbook                                        XFR
         Large Copier                                     Sharp
         Tablets                                          iPad, and Android
         Phones/VoIP                                      Cisco

                              Software Standards
         ERP system                                       Tyler Technologies Munis
         Collaboration platform                           Sharepoint (CODI)
         DurhamNC.Gov City website                        CivicPlus


RFP for Software Solution to Automate the City of Durham Employee Performance Evaluation Program page 9
         Productivity Tools                               Microsoft Office / Office 365
         Workstation Operating Systems                    Windows 7 / Windows 8 / Windows 10
         Reporting                                        SQL report
         Reporting                                        Crystal reports
         Web Browsers                                     IE, Chrome, Firefox, Safari
         Development Standards                            .net, java, ColdFusion

               Network/Data Center Standards
         Email                                            Microsoft Exchange / Office 365
         Connectivity (Internet/ MAN)                     TCP/IP
         VPN                                              Cisco / Cisco any connect
         Storage                                          EMC VNX SAN
         Backup System                                    Hitachi/Commvault
         Virtual Environment                              Vmware
         Network Switches                                 Cisco
         Data Center Converged Infrastructure             HP Blade
         Data Center O/S                                  Microsoft Server 2008, 2012
         Email spam filter                                Barracuda
         Network Load Balancer                            Fat pipe
         Anti-Virus                                       McAffee
         VOIP server                                      Cisco UC


Vendor solution must be compatible with above standards for Endpoint, Software and Network/Data
Center standards. Please indicate in your proposal where the solution is not compatible with the City of
Durham standards.

46. City Cloud Computing Security Requirements. The City of Durham has Cloud Computing Security
Requirements for governance and regulatory compliance for applications with its portfolio.


Identity management
        Provider must have its own identity management system to control access to information and
        computing resources. Please provide details of these controls.


Physical and personnel security
        Provider must ensure that physical machines are adequately secure and that access to these
        machines as well as all relevant customer data is not only restricted but that access is
        documented. Please provide details of these controls.


Application security

RFP for Software Solution to Automate the City of Durham Employee Performance Evaluation Program page 10
        Provider must ensure that applications available as a service via the cloud are secure by
        implementing testing and acceptance procedures for outsourced or packaged application code. It
        also requires application security measures are in place in the production environment. Please
        provide details of these controls.


Security Certifications
        Provide list of security certifications you hold along with a copy of each. Providers should hold ISO
        27001 for security controls or SAS 70 Type II audits for physical security.


Architecture and Software Isolation
        The cloud provides services via an abstraction layer – a web portal. Behind this abstraction layer is
        a hidden world of complexity that includes firmware, hypervisors, operating systems, virtual
        machines, user portals, charge back and metering systems, provisioning, orchestration and other
        essential functions. Much of this functionality and its supporting software don’t typically exist
        within IT infrastructures.

        A. By adding new functionality and software to the architecture, what is known as an attack
           surface emerges. From a security and privacy perspective, it is important for the provider to
           detail how he will protect the City’s data from this. Please provide details of these controls.
        B. Another area for concern is how the provider handles software isolation. This is how data is
           set-up and shared across databases and common application platforms, particularly in multi-
           tenant applications. All public sector cloud data must be isolated from shared systems,
           databases and applications. Please provide details of these controls.


Data Storage & Protection
        A. All public sector cloud data must reside in the continental U.S.
        B. Provide all locations of where the City’s data will be stored (geographical locations) to include
           hot sites in case the system failure.
        C. List the type of encryption used to secure the data
        D. Detail how the data is protected against leaks
        E. Provide a list of vendor employees and third parties that can access the City’s data
        F. Provide a copy of the procedure for regulating access to the data
        G. Provide a list of formats that the data can be stored and converted
        H. Provide Data backup schedules
        I.   Provide the method by which the City’s data will be sanitized from your storage when the
             contract is terminated, to include backup copies
        J.   Provide a copy of the vendor’s disaster recovery plan
        K. Provide the process used to vet technicians


RFP for Software Solution to Automate the City of Durham Employee Performance Evaluation Program page 11
Data Availability
        Provider must assure the City that they will have regular and predictable access to their data and
        applications. The vendor will have a method of providing continued operations for the City if the
        vendor’s operations are suddenly shut down. Additionally, the provider must have a method to
        return all data to the City if the provider goes out of business or is shut down. Please provide
        details of these controls.


Business continuity and data recovery
        Provider must have business continuity and data recovery plans in place to ensure that service
        can be maintained in case of a disaster or an emergency and that any data loss will be recovered.
        These plans must be provided to the City.


Incident Response
        A. Provide a copy of your incident response plan.
        B. Provider must detail any circumstance that might cause our data to be inaccessible such as a
           subpoena, litigation, or e-discovery for another customer’s data or services.


Compliance & Privacy
        A. All public sector cloud data must reside in the continental U.S.
        B. Numerous regulations pertain to the storage and use of data, including federal laws and
           regulations such as FISMA, the National Archives and Records Management Act (NARMA),
           North Carolina Records Retention and Disposition Schedule, Payment Card Industry Data
           Security Standard (PCI DSS), the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA),
           and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, among others. Many of these regulations require regular
           reporting and audit trails. Cloud providers must enable their customers to comply
           appropriately with these regulations. Please provide details of these controls.
        C. Provider must ensure that all critical data (credit card numbers, for example) are masked and
           that only authorized users have access to data in its entirety. Moreover, digital identities and
           credentials must be protected as should any data that the provider collects or produces about
           customer activity in the cloud. Please provide details of these controls.
        D. City data will not be used for vendor advertising or other promotional purposes. City data will
           not be sold to third parties. Please provide details of these controls.
        E. Provider has the ability to preserve, identify, collect, process, analyze and produce all forms of
           electronic files. All public sector cloud data must be discoverable in accordance with state and
           federal laws. Please provide details of these controls.
        F. Provider must comply with North Carolina statutes when dealing with legal issues, such as
           Contracts and E-Discovery, which may vary by state. Providers must also comply with the
           North Carolina Municipal Records Retention and Disposition Schedule.
           http://durhamnc.gov/ich/cco/Documents/retention_09.pdf




RFP for Software Solution to Automate the City of Durham Employee Performance Evaluation Program page 12
        G. In addition to producing logs and audit trails, provider must work with the City to ensure that
           these logs and audit trails are properly secured, maintained for as long as the City requires,
           and are accessible for the purposes of forensic investigation (e.g., e-Discovery). Please provide
           details of these controls.
        H. Because so much of what’s behind the cloud is hidden, the City may need to conduct an audit
           or review past performance and certifications to gain a degree of trust as to what is going on
           within the infrastructure where our data will reside. It is critical that the provider allow for
           external audits. Many cloud providers do not allow customers to enter their data centers. In
           that case, it is important that they have provisions to allow external auditors to access the
           facilities. Please provide details of these controls.



50. Compensation Amount and Schedule.
The timing of the payment or payments will be determined by a contract based on the project scope of
work and budget. Provide separate pricing for the following, regardless of whether the items will be
bundled:

• Software license costs (the City is expecting about 2300 active users).
• Initial configuration and set-up.
• Hosting fees, if applicable and pricing model (by user, enterprise, module, etc.).
• Training costs.
• Ongoing technical support/ maintenance costs, by year.
• Additional requirements or service
• Optional functionality.

If pricing is tiered, please provide specific listing of services and associated functions and pricing for each
tier. Vendor will indicate which items are optional

60. Definitions in this RFP: City, RFP, Proposal, Candidate, Contractor, Should. Unless the context
indicates otherwise – (a) The expressions “RFP,” “this RFP,” and “the RFP” refer to this document as it
may be amended or updated. (b) “City” and “city” mean the City of Durham. (c) The “proposal” is the
response of a person, firm, or corporation proposing to provide the services sought by this RFP. (d) The
word “Candidate” or “candidate” is the person, firm, or corporation that submits a proposal or that is
considering submitting a proposal. (e) The word “Contractor” or “contractor” is the person, firm, or
corporation with which the City enters into a contract to provide the services sought by this RFP. That is,
“contractor” generally refers to a successful candidate that has obtained a fully executed contract with
the City, while “candidate” is generally reserved to the stage before a contract has been signed. (f) The
word “should” is used to tell candidates what the City thinks it wants and/or what the project manager
thinks is best. Candidates that want to increase the likelihood of being selected will, in general, do what
the RFP says candidates “should” do, but failure to comply with all “shoulds” will not necessarily and
automatically result in rejection.

70. Contract. The City anticipates that the conclusion of the RFP process will be a contract between the
City and the successful candidate under which the successful candidate will provide the goods and
services generally described in this RFP. It is the City’s intention to use the contract that is attached as
Exhibit A, modified and filled in to reflect the RFP and the proposal. If a candidate objects to any of the
contract, it should state the objections in its proposal.


RFP for Software Solution to Automate the City of Durham Employee Performance Evaluation Program page 13
80. Trade Secrets and Confidentiality.
As a general rule, all submissions to the City are available to any member of the public. However, if
materials qualify as provided in this section, the City will take reasonable steps to keep trade secrets
confidential.
Definitions.
         In this section (Trade Secrets and Confidentiality) –
         The term “candidate” includes the candidate as contractor (that is, after it is a party to a contract
         with the City).
         The term “trade secret” means business or technical information, including but not limited to a
         formula, pattern, program, device, compilation of information, method, technique, or process
         that:
                  a. Derives independent actual or potential commercial value from not being generally
                  known or readily ascertainable through independent development or reverse engineering
                  by persons who can obtain economic value from its disclosure or use; and
                  b. Is the subject of efforts that are reasonable under the circumstances to maintain its
                  secrecy. The existence of a trade secret shall not be negated merely because the
                  information comprising the trade secret has also been developed, used, or owned
                  independently by more than one person, or licensed to other persons.

The term “record” means all documents, papers, letters, maps, books, photographs, films, sound
recordings, magnetic or other tapes, electronic data-processing records, artifacts, or other documentary
material, regardless of physical form or characteristics, received by the City of Durham in connection with
the candidate’s proposal.

        (a) Designation of Confidential Records. To the extent that the candidate wishes to maintain the
        confidentiality of trade secrets contained in materials provided to the City, the candidate shall
        prominently designate the material with the words “trade secrets” at the time of its initial
        disclosure to the City. The candidate shall not designate any material provided to the City as
        trade secrets unless the candidate has a reasonable and good-faith belief that the material
        contains a trade secret. When requested by the City, the candidate shall promptly disclose to the
        City the candidate’s reasoning for designating material as trade secrets; the candidate may need
        to label parts of that reasoning as trade secrets. In providing materials to the City, the candidate
        shall make reasonable efforts to separate those designated as trade secrets from those not so
        designated, both to facilitate the City’s use of the materials and to minimize the opportunity for
        accidental disclosure. For instance, if only a sentence or paragraph on a page is a trade secret,
        the page must be marked clearly to communicate that distinction. To avoid mistake or confusion,
        it is generally best to have only trade secret information on a page and nothing else on that page.

        To the extent authorized by applicable state and federal law, the City shall maintain the
        confidentiality of records designated “trade secrets” in accordance with this section. Whenever
        the candidate ceases to have a good-faith belief that a particular record contains a trade secret, it
        shall promptly notify the City.

        (b) Request by Public for Access to Record. When any person requests the City to provide access
        to a record designated as a trade secret in accordance with subsection (a) above, the City may
                (1) decline the request for access,



RFP for Software Solution to Automate the City of Durham Employee Performance Evaluation Program page 14
                (2) notify the candidate of the request and that the City has provided, or intends to
                provide, the person access to the record because applicable law requires that the access
                be granted, or
                (3) notify the candidate of the request and that the City intends to decline the request.

        Before declining the request, the City may require the candidate to give further assurances so that
        the City can be certain that the candidate will comply with subsection (c) below.
        (c) Defense of City. If the City declines the request for access to a record designated as trade
        secrets in accordance with subsection (a), then, in consideration of the promises in (b) above and
        for considering the candidate’s proposal, the candidate agrees that it shall defend, indemnify, and
        save harmless Indemnitees from and against all Charges that arise in any manner from, in
        connection with, or out of the City’s non-disclosure of the records. In providing that defense, the
        candidate shall at its sole expense defend Indemnitees with legal counsel. The legal counsel shall
        be limited to attorneys reasonably acceptable to the City Attorney.
        Definitions. As used in this subsection (c), “Charges" means claims, judgments, costs, damages,
        losses, demands, liabilities, fines, penalties, settlements, expenses, attorneys’ fees, and interest.
        Indemnitees" means the City, and officers, officials, independent contractors, agents, and
        employees, of the City. “Indemnitees” does not include the candidate. The City may require the
        candidate to provide proof of the candidate’s ability to pay the amounts that may reasonably be
        expected to become monetary obligations of the candidate pursuant to this section. If the
        candidate fails to provide that proof in a timely manner, the City shall not be required to keep
        confidential the records whose non-disclosure gives rise to the potential monetary obligation.
        Nothing in this agreement shall require the City to require any person (including the City itself) to
        be placed in substantial risk of imprisonment, of being found by a court to be in contempt, or of
        being in violation of a court order. This subsection (c) is separate from and is to be construed
        separately from any other indemnification and warranty provisions in the contract between the
        City and the candidate.

85. Reserved.

90. Bonds. No fidelity bond, performance bond, or payment bond is required for this contract.

100. Insurance. Depending on the nature of the approved project, the City of Durham Office
of Risk Management, may require the candidate to carry insurance for the project, with the
City named as an “additional insured.” The project contract will include any necessary
insurance requirements which shall be the responsibility of the candidate. It is recommended
that candidates indicate in their proposal what insurance they have.

110. Discretion of the City.
     A. The City of Durham reserves the right to reject any or all proposals.
     B. NOTWITHSTANDING anything to the contrary in this document or in any addendums to this
     document, unless the contrary provision refers specifically to this provision, the City reserves the
     right (i) to negotiate changes of any nature with any candidate with respect to any term, condition,
     or provision in this document and/or in any proposals, whether or not something is stated to be
     mandatory and whether or not it is said that a proposal will be rejected if certain information or
     documentation is not submitted with it, and (ii) to enter into an agreement for some or all of the
     work with one or more persons, firms, or corporations that do not submit proposals. For example, all
     deadlines are for the administrative convenience or needs of the City and may be waived by the City


RFP for Software Solution to Automate the City of Durham Employee Performance Evaluation Program page 15
    in its discretion. This subparagraph B applies to the entire RFP, including the UBE portions.
    C. Where the City asks or tells candidates to do stated things, such as that a proposal should follow a
    stated format or that the candidate should do stated things in seeking the contract, the City may
    reject a proposal because it does not comply with those requests, so the candidate is adding to its
    risk of rejection by non-compliance. Still, the City may, in its discretion, waive non-compliance. This
    subsection (C) does not limit subsections (A) and (B).
    D. Of course, once a contract is signed, the parties to the contract may enforce the contract
    according to its terms as allowed by applicable law.


120. Schedule.

 Task                                                                           Date
 Solicitation of proposals from Candidates by the City of Durham                March 8, 2018
 Pre-bid conference/questions due                                               March 15, 2018
 Responses to questions posted                                                  March 16, 2018
 Proposals due                                                                  March 22, 2018
 Estimated Selection process                                                    May 1, 2018
 Contract negotiation complete                                                  April 3, 2018
 Contract execution                                                             May 7, 2018
 Implementation completed                                                       November 2018

This schedule is the City's best estimate of the schedule that will be followed. If a component of this
schedule is delayed, the rest of the schedule will be shifted by the same number of days.

130. Keeping Proposals Open. All proposals will remain open and valid for the City to accept for a period
of 60 days after the deadline for submission of proposals. The Project Manager may release candidates
from this obligation by a written letter that specifically refers to this paragraph if he or she determines
that the candidate and/or the proposal will not meet the City’s needs.

140. Deadline to Submit Proposals. Candidates should see that their proposals are received at the
following address by March 22, 2018 at 5:00 pm ET:

Attn: Brian Green
Technology Solutions Department
101 City Hall – 4th Floor
Durham, NC 27701-3329


GETTING MORE INFORMATION ON THE PROJECT AND RFP PROCESS

160. Reserved

170. Updates and revisions to RFP. If you have supplied the Project Manager with your preferred
method of contact (email, fax, etc.), updates to this RFP (“addendums” or “addenda”) will be sent to you
in that manner. This RFP and addendums are normally posted on the City’s website, on the Purchasing


RFP for Software Solution to Automate the City of Durham Employee Performance Evaluation Program page 16
Division’s webpage, at http://durhamnc.gov/bids.aspx . Check that webpage to see that you have
received all addenda.

Pre-submittal conferences, meetings, and site visits: The City will conduct a Pre-Proposal Conference on
March 15, 2018 at 10:00am in the Audit Conference Room of City Hall, 101 City Hall Plaza. Attendees
should already be familiar with this RFP.

                                          EVALUATION CRITERIA

180. Evaluation Criteria. If an award is made, it is expected that the City’s award will be to the candidate
that agrees to meet the needs of the City. Proposals will be reviewed and evaluated on a 100 point basis
as outlined below. After evaluating all submissions, the City may ask some or all of the firms that
submitted a response to participate in interviews and solution demonstrations. Upon completion of the
evaluation process, the City may assign a detailed scope of work to the selected candidate and negotiate
fees for services.
                                          Criteria                        Points
                       Experience and Qualifications                  20
                       References                                     15
                       Solution Alignment to Business Need            25
                       Methodology/Approach Used                      25
                       Cost                                           15

The above-stated Evaluation Criteria are intended to be used to make a recommendation to the entity or
person (the City Manager or the City Council) who will award the contract, but who are not bound to use
these criteria or to award on the basis of the recommendation. The City reserves the right to change the
criteria and to otherwise vary from this procedure as it determines to be in the City’s interest.

In addition, the City deems this project to be governed by the provisions of N.C.Gen.Stat. § 143-129.8,
which govern the “Purchase of Information Technology Goods and Services.” The referenced statute
allows the City to use procurement methods set forth in N.C.Gen.Stat. 143-135.9 in developing and
evaluating requests for proposals. Further, N.C.Gen.Stat. § 143-129.8 authorizes the City to negotiate with
any proposer in order to obtain a final contract that best meets the needs of the City of Durham.
Negotiations to that end shall at all times be pursued such that they do not go beyond the scope of this
Request for Proposals in a manner that: (i) deprives proposers or potential proposers of a fair opportunity
to compete for the subject contract; and (ii) would have resulted in the award of the contract to a
different person or entity if the alterations had been included in this Request for Proposals.

                                         CONTENTS OF PROPOSAL
240. Contents of Proposal.
Please enclose 3 hard copies of your proposal in addition to an electronic copy (via Email, USB drive or
Disk) . The proposal should include sections, numbered as follows:

        1. Contact information. Include the candidate’s name and address, and the contact information
           (name, mailing address, email address, fax number, and telephone number) of the person
           whom the City should contact regarding the proposal.




RFP for Software Solution to Automate the City of Durham Employee Performance Evaluation Program page 17
        2. Legal Status of the Candidate and Signers. State the full, exact name of the candidate. State
           whether the candidate is an individual, corporation, limited partnership, general partnership,
           limited liability company, professional corporation, professional association, etc. If it is
           anything other than an individual or a general partnership, specify the State under which the
           entity is organized. If the State under which the entity is organized is not North Carolina,
           specify whether the candidate has received a certificate of authority from the N. C. Secretary
           of State to transact business in North Carolina. State whether the entity is in existence at the
           time the proposal is submitted, and if not, whether and when the candidate intends to
           officially form the entity. State the names and titles of the individuals who will sign the
           contract with the City.


        3. Qualifications, References, and Licenses. This part should include the candidate’s experience
           on similar projects and include 2 references and how to contact them. Government
           references are preferred.


        4. List the candidate’s current licenses that are pertinent to this project.


        5. Project Team, Location of Work, and Subcontracting. State the names and qualifications of
           the individuals who will have responsibility for this project.

        6. Detailed response to the requirements section (Section 40). Please use format provided in
           section 280.


        7. Methods, Procedures and Implementation Plan. Include the work break down structure and
           outline the schedule for this project.


        8. Compensation. Explain the entire compensation arrangement that you propose.

        9. Assumptions regarding City of Durham Actions and Participation. If your proposal assumes
        that the City will take certain actions, provide facilities, or do anything else, you should state these
        assumptions explicitly.

        10. Equal Business Opportunity Program. It is the policy of the City to provide equal
        opportunities for City contracting for underutilized firms owned by minorities and women doing
        business in the City’s Contracting Marketplace. It is further the policy of the City to prohibit
        discrimination against any firm in pursuit of these opportunities, to conduct its contracting
        activities so as to prevent such discrimination, to correct present effects of past discrimination
        and to resolve complaints of discrimination. This policy applies to all professional services
        categories.

        In accordance with the Ordinance, all contractors are required to provide information
        requested in the “Equal Business Opportunity Program Procurement Forms” package

RFP for Software Solution to Automate the City of Durham Employee Performance Evaluation Program page 18
        included with this Request for Bids. Bids that do not contain the appropriate, completed forms
        will be deemed non-responsive and ineligible for consideration.

        For procurement services that have no UBE goals, only the “Employee Breakdown” form is
        required. This project has no UBE goals.

        The Department of Equal Opportunity/Equity Assurance is responsible for the Equal Business
        Opportunity Program. All questions about Professional Services Forms should be referred to
        Deborah Giles or other department staff at (919) 560- 4180.

        11. Financial Condition, Insurance, and Bonds. The City may reject proposals from candidates
        that are overdue on City property taxes.

        12. Conflict of Interest. If the candidate has any grounds to believe there could be a conflict of
        interest, such as that a City employee who is involved in awarding the contract has a connection
        with the candidate, please explain.

        12. Non-collusion.
        Sign the following and include it with your response:




        NON-COLLUSION AFFIDAVIT
        By executing this proposal, I certify that this proposal is submitted to the City of Durham
        competitively and without collusion. I am authorized to represent the candidate both in
        submitting this bid and in making this Non-collusion Affidavit. To the best of my knowledge and
        belief, (1) the candidate has not violated N. C. General Statute section 133-24 in connection with
        the proposal, (2) the candidate has not entered into any agreement, participated in any collusion,
        or otherwise taken any action in restraint of free competitive bidding in connection with its
        proposal, and (3) the candidate intends to do the work with its own bonafide employees or
        subcontractors and is not bidding for the benefit of another contractor. The neuter includes the
        masculine and the feminine. The candidate to which this Non-Collusion Affidavit refers is:

        ________________________________________________________.
        (insert name of candidate)

        _____________________________________________
        (signature of individual)

        ACKNOWLEDGMENT
        Type or print name of the individual who signed the affidavit:

        _______________________________________ .
        Type or print the name of Notary Public signing this acknowledgment:
        _____________________________________

        Place where acknowledgment occurred: County of __________________, State of ________


RFP for Software Solution to Automate the City of Durham Employee Performance Evaluation Program page 19
        Notary’s residence: County of __________________________, State of ___________

        I, the Notary Public named above, certify (1) the individual named above personally appeared
        before me this day, (2) I have personal knowledge, or satisfactory evidence, of the individual’s
        identity; and (3) the individual acknowledged signing the foregoing affidavit.
        This the ____ day of ____________, 20____.         _________________________________
                                                                  Notary Public
        My commission expires:
        ____________________________



                                     COVER LETTER WITH PROPOSAL

250. Cover letter. The proposal should contain a cover letter, signed by a principal of the candidate. The
cover letter should contain the following statement:
        The undersigned, whose title and position with the candidate are stated next to or beneath his or
        her signature, has the authority to submit this proposal (including this cover letter) on behalf of
        the candidate in response to the City of Durham’s Request for Proposals.

        Unless otherwise clearly stated in this response to the RFP, our proposal accepts the terms and
        conditions stated in the RFP, including the description of services to be performed and the
        provisions of the contract to be signed.

The cover letter should contain one of the following two paragraphs A or B. If (i) the cover letter lacks
both paragraph A and paragraph B, or (ii) the cover letter contains paragraph A but fails to comply with
the instructions in the section of the RFP titled “Trade Secrets and Confidentiality,” the City may treat
everything it receives from the candidate as NOT trade secret or confidential, and the City may disclose to
the public everything it receives from the candidate.

        A. With respect to all trade secrets that the candidate may submit to the City in connection with
        this proposal or the contract, if the contract is awarded to the candidate, the candidate shall
        comply with the section of the RFP titled “Trade Secrets and Confidentiality,” including all of its
        subsections, including the subsection titled “Defense of City.” The candidate acknowledges that
        the City will rely on the preceding sentence.
                                                           -or-
        B. The candidate is not submitting any trade secrets to the City in connection with this proposal
        or the contract; if the contract is awarded to the candidate, the candidate will not submit any
        trade secrets to the City in connection with this proposal or the contract. The candidate
        acknowledges that the City will rely on the preceding sentence.

        A. This proposal is an offer that cannot be revoked before 60 days. The City may allow the
        candidate to withdraw the offer by sending written withdrawal permission that refers specifically
        to this provision.
                                                        -or-
        B. This proposal is not an offer, and the candidate retains the right to decline to enter into a
        contract with the City for this project.


RFP for Software Solution to Automate the City of Durham Employee Performance Evaluation Program page 20
260. Addendums. The cover letter should list the last addendum that the City issues for this RFP, with a
statement such as the undersigned candidate has read all the addendums issued by the City for this RFP,
through and including Addendum No. ____. In that blank the candidate should list the number of the last
addendum.

                                       HOW TO SUBMIT A PROPOSAL

270. How to submit a proposal.
Candidates should submit 3 hard copies and one electronic copy of their proposal in a sealed envelope.
The envelope should be addressed for delivery to the Project Manager at the address shown in the
“Project Manager and Contact with City” section at the beginning of this RFP.

Write the following prominently on the outside of the envelope:

Project Name:
RFP Number:

280. Format. Please provide response in appropriate business format. Submit an electronic copy and 3
hard copies of the completed proposal. Include a table that contains responses to all requirements in
section 40 with itemized pricing, in addition to a summary of work with a and total solution cost.

290. Alternative Proposals. If you wish to submit a proposal that does not comply with the City’s
standards and expectations, consider submitting two proposals: a proposal that complies, plus a proposal
that does not comply, so that your “non-compliant” version can be considered as an alternative if the City
is interested. This will allow your compliant version to be considered if the City remains steadfast on
applying the standards and expectations.

300. Candidate to Bear Expense; No Claims against City. No candidate will have any claims or rights
against the City arising out of the participation by a candidate in the proposal process. No candidate will
have any claims or rights against the City for the City’s failure to award a contract to it or for awarding a
contract to another person, firm, or corporation, regardless of whether the other person, firm, or
corporation participated in the RFP process or did not submit a proposal that complied with the RFP. A
notice of award will not constitute acceptance by the City; the City’s only method of acceptance is the
City’s execution of a formal contract in accordance with law.

310. Reserved.

320. Notice Under the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA).
A person with a disability may receive an auxiliary aid or service to effectively participate in city
government activities by contacting the ADA Coordinator, voice (919) 560-4197, fax 560-4196, TTY (919)
560-1200, or ADA@durhamnc.gov, as soon as possible but no later than 48 hours before the event or
deadline date.
Aviso bajo el Acto de Americanos Discapacitados – Una persona con una discapacidad puede recibir
asistencia o servicio auxiliar para participar efectivamente en actividades del gobierno de la ciudad con
ponerse en contacto con el Coordinador de ADA, buzón de voz (919) 560-4197, fax (919) 560-4196, TTY
(919) 560-1200, o ADA@durhamnc.gov, lo más antes posible pero no menos de 48 horas antes del evento
o fecha indicada.


RFP for Software Solution to Automate the City of Durham Employee Performance Evaluation Program page 21
330. Values of City of Durham regarding Treatment of Employees of Contractors

A.        Statement of City EEO Policy. The City of Durham opposes discrimination in employment because
of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, political affiliation or belief, age, or handicap. Therefore, it
desires that firms doing business with the City:
1.        not discriminate against any employee or applicant for employment because of race, color,
religion, sex, national origin, political affiliation or belief, age, or handicap.
2.        take affirmative action to ensure that applicants are employed and that employees are treated
equally during employment, without regard to race, color, religion, sex, national origin, political affiliation
or belief, age, or handicap. This action includes employment, upgrading, demotion, transfer, recruitment
or advertising, layoff or termination, rates of pay or other forms of compensation, and selection for
training, including apprenticeship.
3.        state, in solicitations or advertisement for employees, that all qualified applicants will receive
consideration for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, national origin, political
affiliation or belief, age, or handicap.
4-        include this Statement of City EEO Policy in every purchase order for goods to be used in
performing City contracts and in every subcontract related to City contracts.

B.       Livable Wage. The City of Durham desires that firms doing business with the City pay their
workers a livable wage rate while working on City contracts. The livable wage rate is $14.15 per hour
through June 30, 2018, and $15.00 per hour for July 1, 2018 – June 30, 2019. The City will re-set the rate
for the period after June 30, 2019.


---- End of RFP ---




RFP for Software Solution to Automate the City of Durham Employee Performance Evaluation Program page 22
                                          Exhibit A: Model Services Contract

CONTRACT FOR [descriptive title to be inserted*]

           This contract is dated, made, and entered into as of the _____ day of ___________________, 20_____, by
the City of Durham (“City”), a N. C. municipal corporation, and [name of firm] (“Contractor”), [Indicate type of
entity, for instance:
       a corporation organized and existing under the laws of [name of State];
       a limited liability company organized and existing under the laws of [name of State];
       a professional corporation organized and existing under the laws of [name of State];
       a professional association organized and existing under the laws of [name of State];
       a limited partnership organized and existing under the laws of [name of State];
       a sole proprietorship;
       or a general partnership
If it’s a corporation, LLC, or limited partnership, use the above “organized and existing” language, and do not
substitute news about the contractor’s principal office or place of business.].

          Sec. 1. Background and Purpose.
          Sec. 2. Services and Scope to be Performed. Presumption that Duty is Contractor’s. The Contractor shall
[state the services to be provided and the schedule for those services.*]. In this contract, “Work” means the services
that the Contractor is required to perform pursuant to this contract and all of the Contractor’s duties to the City that
arise out of this contract. Unless the context requires otherwise, if this contract states that a task is to be performed or
that a duty is owed, it shall be presumed that the task or duty is the obligation of the Contractor.
          Sec. 3. Reserved.
          Sec. 4. Complete Work without Extra Cost. Except to the extent otherwise specifically stated in this
contract, the Contractor shall obtain and provide, without additional cost to the City, all labor, materials, equipment,
transportation, facilities, services, permits, and licenses necessary to perform the Work.
          Sec. 5. Contractor’s Billings to City. Compensation. The Contractor shall send invoices to the City on a
monthly basis for the amounts to be paid pursuant to this contract. Each invoice shall document, to the reasonable
satisfaction of the City: such information as may be reasonably requested by the City Within twenty days after the
City receives an invoice, the City shall send the Contractor a check in payment for all undisputed amounts contained
in the invoice.
          The City shall pay the Contractor for the Work as follows. The City shall not be obligated to pay the
Contractor any payments, fees, expenses, or compensation other than those authorized by this section. [If applicable,
you can add a sentence to this effect*: The total dollar amount to be paid under this contract by the City to the
Contractor shall not exceed $(insert amount).]
          Sec. 6. Prompt Payment to Subcontractors. (a) Within 7 days of receipt by the Contractor of each payment
from the City under this contract, the Contractor shall pay all Subcontractors (which term includes subconsultants and
suppliers) based on work completed or service provided under the subcontract. Should any payment to the
Subcontractor be delayed by more than 7 days after receipt of payment by the Contractor from the City under this
contract, the Contractor shall pay the Subcontractor interest, beginning on the 8 th day, at the rate of 1% per month or
fraction thereof on such unpaid balance as may be due. By appropriate litigation, Subcontractors shall have the right
to enforce this subsection (a) directly against the Contractor, but not against the City of Durham.
          (b) If the individual assigned to administer this contract for the City (in this section, titled “Prompt Payment
to Subcontractors,” he or she will be referred to as the “Project Manager”) determines that it is appropriate to enforce
subsection (a) in this manner, the City may withhold from progress or final payments to the Contractor the sums
estimated by the Project Manager to be
                (i) the amount of interest due to the Subcontractor under subsection (a), and/or
                (ii) the amounts past-due under subsection (a) to the Subcontractor but not exceeding 5% of the
                payment(s) due from the City to the Contractor.
This subsection (b) does not limit any other rights to withhold payments that the City may have.
          (c) Nothing in this section (titled “Prompt Payment to Subcontractors”) shall prevent the Contractor at the
time of invoicing, application, and certification to the City from withholding invoicing, application, and certification
to the City for payment to the Subcontractor for unsatisfactory job progress; defective goods, services, or construction
not remedied; disputed work; third-party claims filed or reasonable evidence that such a claim will be filed; failure of
the subcontractor to make timely payments for labor, equipment, and materials; damage to the Contractor or another

RFP for Software Solution to Automate the City of Durham Employee Performance Evaluation Program page 23
subcontractor; reasonable evidence that the subcontract cannot be completed for the unpaid balance of the subcontract
sum; or a reasonable amount for retainage not to exceed 10%.
          (d) The Project Manager may require, as a prerequisite to making progress or final payments, that the
Contractor provide statements from any Subcontractors designated by the Project Manager regarding the status of
their accounts with the Contractor. The statements shall be in such format as the Project Manager reasonably requires,
including notarization if so specified.
          Sec. 7. Insurance.
          Sec. 8. Performance of Work by City. If the Contractor fails to perform the Work in accordance with the
schedule required by this contract, the City may, in its discretion, in order to bring the project closer to the schedule,
perform or cause to be performed some or all of the Work, and doing so shall not waive any of the City’s rights and
remedies. Before doing so, the City shall give the Contractor notice of its intention. The Contractor shall reimburse
the City for additional costs incurred by the City in exercising its right to perform or cause to be performed some or all
of the Work pursuant to this section
          Sec. 9. Exhibits. The following exhibits are made a part of this contract
          Exhibit A [Insert title of exhibit] containing [insert number] page(s).
          Exhibit B [Insert title of exhibit] containing [insert number] page(s).
          In case of conflict between an exhibit and the text of this contract excluding the exhibit, the text of this
contract shall control.
          Sec. 10. Notice. (a) This subsection (a) pertains to all notices related to or asserting default, breach of
contract, claim for damages, suspension or termination of performance, suspension or termination of contract, and
extension or renewal of the term. All such notices shall be given by personal delivery, fax, UPS, Federal Express, a
designated delivery service authorized pursuant to 26 U.S.C. 7502(f)(2), or certified United States mail, return receipt
requested, addressed as follows. The parties are requested to send a copy by email.
          To the City:
          [Insert name and department*]
          City of Durham
          101 City Hall Plaza
          Durham, NC 27701-3329
          The fax number is (919) [Insert fax number.*]
          Email: [Insert email address.*]

         To the Contractor:
         [Insert name and address]
         The fax number is ___________.
         Email:

          (b) Change of Address. Date Notice Deemed Given. A change of address, email address, fax number, or
person to receive notices under subsection (a) shall be made by notice given pursuant to subsection (a). All notices
and other communications related to or under this contract shall be deemed given and sent at the time of actual
delivery, if personally delivered or sent by fax, personal delivery, UPS, Federal Express, or a designated delivery
service. If the notice or other communication is sent by United States mail, it shall be deemed given upon the third
calendar day following the day on which such notice or other communication is deposited with the United States
Postal Service or upon actual delivery, whichever first occurs.
          Sec. 11. Indemnification. (a) To the maximum extent allowed by law, the Contractor shall defend,
indemnify, and save harmless Indemnitees from and against all Charges that arise in any manner from, in connection
with, or out of this contract as a result of acts or omissions of the Contractor or subcontractors or anyone directly or
indirectly employed by any of them or anyone for whose acts any of them may be liable. In performing its duties
under this subsection “a,” the Contractor shall at its sole expense defend Indemnitees with legal counsel reasonably
acceptable to City. (b) Definitions. As used in subsections “a” above and “c” below -- “Charges” means claims,
judgments, costs, damages, losses, demands, liabilities, duties, obligations, fines, penalties, royalties, settlements, and
expenses (included without limitation within “Charges” are (1) interest and reasonable attorneys' fees assessed as part
of any such item, and (2) amounts for alleged violations of sedimentation pollution, erosion control, pollution, or other
environmental laws, regulations, ordinances, rules, or orders -- including but not limited to any such alleged violation
that arises out of the handling, transportation, deposit, or delivery of the items that are the subject of this contract).
“Indemnitees” means City and its officers, officials, independent contractors, agents, and employees, excluding the
Contractor. (c) Other Provisions Separate. Nothing in this section shall affect any warranties in favor of the City that


RFP for Software Solution to Automate the City of Durham Employee Performance Evaluation Program page 24
are otherwise provided in or arise out of this contract. This section is in addition to and shall be construed separately
from any other indemnification provisions that may be in this contract. (d) Survival. This section shall remain in
force despite termination of this contract (whether by expiration of the term or otherwise) and termination of the
services of the Contractor under this contract. (e) Limitations of the Contractor's Obligation. If this section is in, or
is in connection with, a contract relative to the design, planning, construction, alteration, repair or maintenance of a
building, structure, highway, road, appurtenance or appliance, including moving, demolition and excavating
connected therewith, then subsection “a” above shall not require the Contractor to indemnify or hold harmless
Indemnitees against liability for damages arising out of bodily injury to persons or damage to property proximately
caused by or resulting from the negligence, in whole or in part, of Indemnitees.
          Sec. 12. Trade Secrets; Confidentiality. The request for proposals (RFP) section titled “Trade Secrets and
Confidentiality” shall apply to any Trade Secrets disclosed to the City during the process leading to the parties’
entering into this Contract (including all of the Contractor’s responses to the RFP). This section (titled “Trade
Secrets; Confidentiality”) shall remain in force despite termination of this contract (whether by expiration of the term
or otherwise) and termination of the services of the Contractor under this contract. For purposes of this contract, the
word “candidate” in the RFP section just cited shall mean the “Contractor.”
          Sec. 13. Termination for Convenience (“TFC”). (a) Procedure. Without limiting any party’s right to
terminate for breach, the parties agree that the City may, without cause, and in its discretion, terminate this contract
for convenience by giving the Contractor written notice that refers to this section. TFC shall be effective at the time
indicated in the notice. (b) Obligations. Upon TFC, all obligations that are still executory on both sides are
discharged except that any right based on prior breach or performance survives, and the indemnification provisions
and the section of this contract titled Trade Secrets and Confidentiality, if any, shall remain in force. At the time of
TFC or as soon afterwards as is practical, the Contractor shall give the City all Work, including partly completed
Work. In case of TFC, the Contractor shall follow the City’s instructions as to which subcontracts to terminate. (c)
Payment. The City shall pay the Contractor an equitable amount for the costs and charges that accrue because of the
City’s decisions with respect to the subcontracts, but excluding profit for the Contractor. Within 20 days after TFC,
the City shall pay the Contractor one hundred dollars as a TFC fee and shall pay the Contractor for all Work
performed except to the extent previously paid for. Work shall be paid for in accordance with the method (unit prices,
hourly fees, etc.) to be used for payment had the Work been completed except to the extent it would be inequitable to
either party, and if Work was to be paid for on a lump-sum basis, the City shall pay the part of the lump sum that
reflects the percentage of completion attained for that Work. The Contractor shall not be entitled to any payment
because of TFC except as stated in this section, whether on the basis of overhead, profit, damages, other economic
loss, or otherwise.
          Sec. 14. State Law Provisions.
          (a) E-Verify Requirements. (A) If this contract is awarded pursuant to North Carolina General Statutes
(NCGS) 143-129 – (i) the contractor represents and covenants that the contractor and its subcontractors comply with
the requirements of Article 2 of Chapter 64 of the NCGS; (ii) the words "contractor," "contractor’s subcontractors,"
and "comply" as used in this subsection (A) shall have the meanings intended by NCGS 143-129(j); and (iii) the City is
relying on this subsection (A) in entering into this contract. (B) If this contract is subject to NCGS 143-133.3, the
contractor and its subcontractors shall comply with the requirements of Article 2 of Chapter 64 of the NCGS.
          (b) Iran Divestment Act Certification. The Contractor certifies that, if it submitted a successful bid for this
contract, then as of the date it submitted the bid, the Contractor was not identified on the Iran List. If it did not
submit a bid for this contract, the Contractor certifies that as of the date that this contract is entered into, the
Contractor is not identified on the Iran List. It is a material breach of contract for the Contractor to be identified on
the Iran List during the term of this contract or to utilize on this contract any subcontractor that is identified on the
Iran List. In this Iran Divestment Act Certification section -- “Contractor” means the person entering into this
contract with the City of Durham; and “Iran List” means the Final Divestment List – Iran, the Parent and Subsidiary
Guidance– Iran list, and all other lists issued from time to time by the N.C. State Treasurer to comply with G. S. 147-
86.58 of the N.C. Iran Divestment Act.
          Sec. 15. Miscellaneous
          (a) Choice of Law and Forum; Service of Process. (i) This contract shall be deemed made in Durham
County, North Carolina. This contract shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the law of North
Carolina. The exclusive forum and venue for all actions arising out of this contract shall be the North Carolina
General Court of Justice, in Durham County. Such actions shall neither be commenced in nor removed to federal
court. This subsection (a) shall not apply to subsequent actions to enforce a judgment entered in actions heard
pursuant to this subsection. (ii) If the Contractor is not a natural person (for instance, the Contractor is a corporation


RFP for Software Solution to Automate the City of Durham Employee Performance Evaluation Program page 25
or limited liability company), this subsection (ii) applies. “Agent for Service of Process” means every person now or
hereafter appointed by the Contractor to be served or to accept service of process in any State of the United States.
Without excluding any other method of service authorized by law, the Contractor agrees that every Agent for Service
of Process is designated as its non-exclusive agent for service of process, summons, and complaint. The Contractor
will instruct each Agent for Service of Process that after such agent receives the process, summons, or complaint, such
agent shall promptly send it to the Contractor. This subsection (ii) does not apply while the Contractor maintains a
registered agent in North Carolina with the office of the N. C. Secretary of State and such registered agent can be
found with due diligence at the registered office.
          (b) Waiver. No action or failure to act by the City shall constitute a waiver of any of its rights or remedies
that arise out of this contract, nor shall such action or failure to act constitute approval of or acquiescence in a breach
thereunder, except as may be specifically agreed in writing.
          (c) Performance of Government Functions. Nothing contained in this contract shall be deemed or construed
so as to in any way estop, limit, or impair the City from exercising or performing any regulatory, policing, legislative,
governmental, or other powers or functions.
          (d) Severability. If any provision of this contract shall be unenforceable, the remainder of this contract shall
be enforceable to the extent permitted by law.
          (e) Assignment. Successors and Assigns. Without the City's written consent, the Contractor shall not assign
(which includes to delegate) any of its rights (including the right to payment) or duties that arise out of this contract.
The City Manager may consent to an assignment without action by the City Council. Unless the City otherwise
agrees in writing, the Contractor and all assignees shall be subject to all of the City’s defenses and shall be liable for
all of the Contractor’s duties that arise out of this contract and all of the City’s claims that arise out of this contract.
Without granting the Contractor the right to assign, it is agreed that the duties of the Contractor that arise out of this
contract shall be binding upon it and its heirs, personal representatives, successors, and assigns.
          (f) Compliance with Law. In performing all of the Work, the Contractor shall comply with all applicable
law.
          (g) Notice of City Policy. THE CITY OPPOSES DISCRIMINATION ON THE BASIS OF RACE AND
SEX AND URGES ALL OF ITS CONTRACTORS TO PROVIDE A FAIR OPPORTUNITY FOR MINORITIES
AND WOMEN TO PARTICIPATE IN THEIR WORK FORCE AND AS SUBCONTRACTORS AND VENDORS
UNDER CITY CONTRACTS.
          (h) EBOP. The Contractor shall comply with all applicable provisions of Article III of Chapter 18 of the
Durham City Code (Equal Business Opportunities Ordinance), as amended from time to time. The failure of the
Contractor to comply with that article shall be a material breach of contract which may result in the rescission or
termination of this contract and/or other appropriate remedies in accordance with the provisions of that article, this
contract, and State law. The Participation Plan submitted in accordance with that article is binding on the Contractor.
Section 18-59(f) of that article provides, in part, “If the City Manager determines that the Contractor has failed to
comply with the provisions of the Contract, the City Manager shall notify the Contractor in writing of the deficiencies.
The Contractor shall have 14 days, or such time as specified in the Contract, to cure the deficiencies or establish that
there are no deficiencies.” It is stipulated and agreed that those two quoted sentences apply only to the Contractor’s
alleged violations of its obligations under Article III of Chapter 18 and not to the Contractor’s alleged violations of
other obligations.
          (i) No Third Party Rights Created. This contract is intended for the benefit of the City and the Contractor
and not any other person.
          (j) Principles of Interpretation and Definitions. (1) The singular includes the plural and the plural the
singular. The pronouns “it” and “its” include the masculine and feminine. References to statutes or regulations
include all statutory or regulatory provisions consolidating, amending, or replacing the statute or regulation.
References to contracts and agreements shall be deemed to include all amendments to them. The words “include,”
“including,” etc. mean include, including, etc. without limitation. (2) References to a “Section” or “section” shall
mean a section of this contract. (3) “Contract” and “Agreement,” whether or not capitalized, refer to this instrument.
(4) “Duties” includes obligations. (5) The word “person” includes natural persons, firms, companies, associations,
partnerships, trusts, corporations, governmental agencies and units, and other legal entities. (6) The word “shall” is
mandatory. (7) The word “day” means calendar day. (8) The word “Work” is defined in Section 2. (9) A definition
in this contract will not apply to the extent the context requires otherwise.
          (k) Modifications. Entire Agreement. A modification of this contract is not valid unless signed by both
parties and otherwise in accordance with requirements of law. Further, a modification is not enforceable against the
City unless it is signed by the City Manager, a deputy or assistant City Manager, or, in limited circumstances, a City
department director. This contract contains the entire agreement between the parties pertaining to the subject matter


RFP for Software Solution to Automate the City of Durham Employee Performance Evaluation Program page 26
of this contract. With respect to that subject matter, there are no promises, agreements, conditions, inducements,
warranties, or understandings, written or oral, expressed or implied, between the parties, other than as set forth or
referenced in this contract.
          (l) City’s Manager’s Authority. To the extent, if any, the City has the power to suspend or terminate this
contract or the Contractor’s services under this contract, that power may be exercised by City Manager or a deputy or
assistant City Manager without City Council action.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the City and the Contractor have caused this contract to be executed under seal themselves
or by their respective duly authorized agents or officers.


ATTEST:

By: ________________________                                  By: ______________________________
         City Clerk                                                    Authorized City Manager Designee

                                                              Date: _____________



This instrument has been pre-audited in the manner required by the Local Government Budget and Fiscal Control Act.


__________________________
      Finance Officer




RFP for Software Solution to Automate the City of Durham Employee Performance Evaluation Program page 27
                               CITY OF DURHAM
                         EQUAL BUSINESS OPPORTUNITY
                                  PROGRAM

                                      PROCUREMENT FORMS
                                                     Revised 3/2016




                                                               Street Address:

     Phone: 919-560-4180                                       101 City Hall Plaza (Annex)
     Facsimile: 919-560-4513                                   Durham, North Carolina 27701




RFP for Software Solution to Automate the City of Durham Employee Performance Evaluation Program page 28
                              Equal Business Opportunity Program
                               UBE Procurement Documentation

All information in this document is applicable as indicated when UBE goals are required. If documents are
not submitted, your bid may be deemed non-responsive. Only the Employee Breakdown form is required
when there are no UBE goals. Underutilized Business Enterprise (UBE) means a business, including a sole
proprietorship, partnership, corporation, limited liability company, joint venture or any other business or
professional entity that has been certified by (i) the State of North Carolina as a historically underutilized
business (HUB) pursuant to G.S. 143-128.4, as amended; (ii) the North Carolina Department of
Transportation as a disadvantaged minority-owned or woman-owned business pursuant to G.S. 136-28.4,
as amended; or (iii) the Small Business Administration 8(a) Business Development program of the Small
Business Administration of the U.S. Department of Commerce pursuant to 15 U.S.C. 637(a), as amended,
 UBE Participation On this form, “participation” is the dollar amount of subcontracts for significant goods
and services to be used to perform the contract. For instance, if the bidder would enter into a subcontract
with UBEs for a total of $30,000, that would be the UBE participation amount. The sum of UBE
participation and non UBE participation should equal the amount of the bid. This form is required for a bid
that has participation goals and must be completed and submitted with your bid.

Employee Breakdown must be completed and submitted for the location providing the service/commodity.
If the parent company will be involved in providing the service/commodity on the City contract, a
consolidated employment breakdown must be submitted.

Statement of Intent to Perform as Subcontractor The bidder must provide one of these forms for each
UBE firm that the bidder would subcontract with if the City awards the contract to the bidder.

Request to Change UBE Participation After Bid Opening: If at any time during a City contract,
the bidder/contractor proposes to do any of the following :
        to replace a subcontractor,
        to perform subcontracted work with the bidder/contractor’s own
         forces,
        to increase the quantity of subcontracted work,
        to decrease the quantity of subcontracted work, or
        to change the allocation of work among subcontractors,

 then the bidder/contractor must make good-faith efforts to attain the goals that it has shown on the UBE
 Participation form, and the bidder/contractor must fill out the Request to Change UBE Participation After
 Bid Opening. Substitutions of subcontractors in these circumstances, both before and after the awarding
 of a contract, are subject to City approval. Consult the City’s EO/EA Department on the procedures to
 follow.

 Questionnaire on Bidder’s Good-Faith Efforts Bidders that do not attain the UBE goals have the
responsibility to make good-faith efforts and to demonstrate to the City that they have made such efforts. In
determining a bidder’s good-faith efforts to engage UBEs, the City Manager shall consider the information
supplied by the bidder to answer the questions in this form, along with other criteria that the City Manager
deems proper. This questionnaire is an optional tool that bidders may use to show that they have made
good-faith efforts. Even though this form may be submitted after the bid opening, it cannot include
information on efforts made after the bid opening. Even if a bidder does not use this form, the City will
nevertheless attempt to answer the questions on the questionnaire using good-faith documentation
supplied by the bidder. Bidders who do not turn in the questionnaire will still find it helpful to know how the
City will determine whether good-faith efforts have been made.



RFP for Software Solution to Automate the City of Durham Employee Performance Evaluation Program page 29
                                                     EMPLOYEE BREAKDOWN

           Part A – Employee Statistics for the Primary Location

                                                     M--------a--------l--------e--------s           F----e-----m-----a-----
         l-----e-----s

Employment     Total       Total   Total     White     Black   Hispanic Asian or   Indian or White    Black   Hispanic Asian or   Indian or
Category       Employees   Males   Females                              Pacific    Alaskan                             Pacific    Alaskan
                                                                        Islander   Native                              Islander   Native
Project
Manager
Professional


Labor

Clerical

Totals




           Part B – Employee Statistics for the Consolidated Company (See instructions for this form on
           whether this part is required.)

                                                     M--------a--------l--------e--------s            F-----e-----m-----a---
         --l-----e-----s

Employment     Total       Total   Total     White     Black   Hispanic Asian or   Indian or White    Black   Hispanic Asian or   Indian or
Category       Employees   Males   Females                              Pacific    Alaskan                             Pacific    Alaskan
                                                                        Islander   Native                              Islander   Native
Project
Manager
Professional


Labor

Clerical

Totals




         RFP for Software Solution to Automate the City of Durham Employee Performance Evaluation Program page 30
                                     UBE PARTICIPATION ON BID


 Name of Bidder:

 Is bidder a UBE (circle one):      Yes                  No

 Total dollar amount of UBE participation in bid work:

                                                      For each row, check one column: E or F, .
  Column A                  Column B            Column C         Column D      Column E    Column F

  Name of                   Goods and           Subcontract          Percentage      Minority-     Women-
  proposed                  services to be      amount, in           of total        owned         owned
  subcontractor for         provided for base   dollars, for base    base bid        UBE           UBE
  base bid work             bid work            bid work             (Column C
                                                                     divided by
                                                                     total base
                                                                     bid)
                                                $                             %



                                                $                             %



                                                $                             %



                                                $                             %


 Attach extra sheets as needed.

 Do the above participation amounts meet the goals on this contract, assuming only the base bid is
 counted?

   Yes No. If the answer is No: (1) the bidder must have made good-faith efforts; (2) the bidder
   must
   provide, within 2 business days after bid opening, documentation of good-faith efforts; and (3) the
   bidder must sign below.

 As an authorized representative of the Bidder, I swear or affirm under penalty of fraud that the good-
 faith efforts documentation submitted with this bid, pertaining to the base bid and all alternates, if
 any, is correct and not intended to defraud or mislead. After the contract between the City and the
 Bidder is signed, except to the extent that the City gives prior written approval for changes, the
 Contractor agrees that it shall engage the subcontractors listed on this form to perform the work for
 the dollar amounts or percentages described on this form.



RFP for Software Solution to Automate the City of Durham Employee Performance Evaluation Program page 31
                             Signature of individual authorized to sign for Bidder




RFP for Software Solution to Automate the City of Durham Employee Performance Evaluation Program page 32
                         STATEMENT OF INTENT TO PERFORM AS SUBCONTRACTOR


  Name of Bidder:

  Name of Project:

  The undersigned firm meets the City of Durham’s criteria as a UBE.

  The undersigned UBE represents that it will enter into a formal contract with the Bidder to perform the
  following work in connection with the Project, in the dollar amount or percentage listed below, if the
  Bidder signs a contract with the City of Durham for the Project.

  Describe the work in sufficient detail so that it can be determined whether the UBE’s work is a
  substantial and necessary part of the Project.

  Column 1 - description of work to       Column 2 - dollar amount       Column 3 - percentage of Bidder’s
  be done by undersigned UBE              of the proposed                base bid represented by the proposed
                                          subcontract between the        subcontract between the Bidder and
                                          bidder and the undersigned     the undersigned UBE
                                          UBE




  The undersigned UBE will be ready to begin work on the subcontract on the following
  date:_____________


   Name of UBE:                                                Telephone No.

   Address, including Zip Code, of UBE:                                   Fax No.


                                                    Signature of authorized representative of UBE

  Title of the person who signed above:

  What person with the UBE should the City contact with questions about this form or the proposed
  subcontract?

  Name of individual:                                                    Telephone No.
  Title of individual:
  Email address:
  By submitting this form to the City of Durham, the Bidder represents that if the Bidder signs the
  contract with the City of Durham for the Project, the Bidder will enter into the subcontract described
  above with this UBE.



RFP for Software Solution to Automate the City of Durham Employee Performance Evaluation Program page 33
                    REQUEST TO CHANGE UBE PARTICIPATION AFTER BID OPENING


Project:


Name of bidder or contractor:


Name and title of representative of bidder or contractor:


 Address:                                                                 Zip Code:

 Telephone No.:                                                           Fax No.:

Email Address:



 Total amount of original contract, before any change orders or amendments:

Total amount of the contract, including all approved change orders and amendments to date, but not
counting the changes proposed in this form:

Dollar amount of changes proposed in this form:

The proposed change (check one)        increases     decreases the dollar amount of the bidder’s/contractor’s
contract
with the City.

Does the proposed change decrease the UBE participation? (check one)        yes             no
If the answer is yes, complete the following:

BOX A. For the subcontract proposed to be changed (increased, reduced, or eliminated): Name of
subcontractor:

Goods and services to be provided before the proposed change:



 Is it proposed to eliminate this subcontract?   yes       no

If the subcontract is to be increased or reduced, describe the nature of the change (such as adding
$5,000 in concrete work and deleting $7,000 in grading):


Dollar amount of this subcontract before this proposed change:

Dollar amount of this subcontract after this proposed change:

This subcontractor is (check one):
 1. Minority-owned UBE
 2. Women-Owned UBE
 3. Not a UBE




RFP for Software Solution to Automate the City of Durham Employee Performance Evaluation Program page 34
BOX B. Proposed subcontracts other than the subcontract described in Box A above
Name of subcontractor for the new work:

Goods and Services to be provided by this proposed subcontractor:


Dollar amount proposed of this proposed subcontract: This subcontractor is:
 1. Minority-owned UBE
 2. Women-Owned UBE
 3. Not a UBE



Add additional sheets as necessary.




RFP for Software Solution to Automate the City of Durham Employee Performance Evaluation Program page 35
 This form is used only if the conditions described in the instructions are present.

                              QUESTIONNAIRE ON BIDDER’S GOOD-FAITH EFFORTS

 Name of Bidder:


 If you find it helpful, feel free to attach pages to explain your answers. How many pages is your
firm attaching to this questionnaire?

 (Don’t count the 2 pages of this questionnaire.)

If a yes or no answer is not appropriate, please explain the facts. All of the answers to these questions
relate only to the time before your firm submitted its bid or proposal to the City. In other words, actions
that your firm took after it submitted the bid or proposal to the City cannot be mentioned or used in any
answers.

 1. SOLICITING UBEs.

 (a) Did your firm solicit, through all reasonable and available means, the interest of all -UBEs (that
 is, in the list provided by the City-) in the scopes of work of the contract? yes no

 (b) In such soliciting, did your firm advertise?   yes no Are you attaching copies to
 this questionnaire, indicating the dates and names of newspaper or other publication for each
 ad if that information is not already on the ads? yes   no

 (c) In such soliciting, did your firm send written (including electronic) notices or letters? Are you
 attaching one or more sample notices or letters? yes no

 (d) Did your firm attend the pre-bid conference?          yes    no

 (e) Did your firm provide interested UBEs with timely, adequate information about the
 plans, specifications, and requirements of the contract?         yes           no

 (f) Did your firm follow up with UBEs that showed interest?              yes    no

 (g) With reference to the UBEs that your firm notified of the type of work to be subcontracted -- Did
     your firm tell them?

                            (i) the specific work your firm was considering for subcontracting? yes no
                                                                                                yes no
                                         (ii) that their interest in the contract is being solicited?
        (iii) how to obtain and inspect the applicable plans and specifications and descriptions of items
                                                                        to be purchased?       yes no

 2. BREAKING DOWN THE WORK.

 (a) Did your firm select portions of the work to be performed by UBEs in order to increase the
     likelihood that the goals would be reached?               yes     no

 (b) If yes, please describe the portions selected. ANSWER:




RFP for Software Solution to Automate the City of Durham Employee Performance Evaluation Program page 36
NEGOTIATION. In your answers to 3, you may omit information regarding UBEs for which you are
providing
  Form E-105.

 (a) What are the names, addresses, and telephone numbers of UBEs that you contacted? ANSWER:
 .
 (b) Describe the information that you provided to the UBEs regarding the plans and specifications for
 the work
     selected for potential subcontracting.      ANSWER:


 (c) Why could your firm not reach agreements with the UBEs that your firm made contact with?
 Be specific.
     ANSWER:


 3. ASSISTANCE TO UBEs ON BONDING, CREDIT, AND INSURANCE.

 (a) Did your firm or the City require any subcontractors to have bonds, lines of credit, or insurance?
     yes no (Note: In most projects, the City has no such requirement for subcontractors.)

 (b) If the answer to (a) is yes, did your firm make efforts to assist UBEs to obtain bonds, lines of credit,
 or insurance? yes no         If yes, describe your firm’s efforts:. ANSWER:

 (c) Did your firm provide alternatives to bonding or insurance for potential subcontractors?      yes     no
     If yes, describe. ANSWER:

 4. GOODS AND SERVICES. What efforts did your firm make to help interested UBEs to obtain goods
 or services
    relevant to the proposed subcontracting work? ANSWER:

 5. USING OTHER SERVICES.
 (a) Did your firm use the services of the City to help solicit UBEs for the work? yes no       Please
 explain.   ANSWER:

 (b) Did your firm use the services of available minority/women community organizations, minority and
 women contractors' groups, government-sponsored minority/women business assistance agencies, and
 other appropriate organizations to help solicit UBEs for the work? yes no Please explain.
 ANSWER:




RFP for Software Solution to Automate the City of Durham Employee Performance Evaluation Program page 37
                                                Exhibit C

                              City of Durham Insurance Requirements

Contractor shall purchase and maintain insurance coverage for not less than the following:

Commercial General Liability, covering:
 Premises/operations
 Products/completed operations (two years minimum, from project completion)
 Broad form property damage
 Contractual liability
 Independent contractors, if any are used in the performance of this contract
 City of Durham must be named additional insured, and an original of the endorsement to effect
  the coverage must be attached to the certificate (if by blanket endorsement, then agent may so
  indicate in the GL section of the certificate, in lieu of an original endorsement)
 Combined single limit not less than $1,000,000 per occurrence, with an annual aggregate on
  not less than $2,000,000.

Commercial Auto Liability, covering:
 Symbol 1, all vehicles
 Combined single limit of $1,000,000
 City of Durham must be named additional insured


Workers' Compensation Insurance, covering:
 Statutory benefits;
 Covering employees; covering owners partners, officers, and relatives (who work on this
  contract) (this must be stated on the certificate)
 Employers' liability, $1,000,000
 Waiver of subrogation in favor of the City of Durham

Insurance shall be provided by:
 Companies authorized to do business in the State of North Carolina
 Companies with Best rating of A-, VII or better.

Insurance shall be evidenced by a certificate:
 Providing notice to the City of not less than 30 days prior to cancellation or reduction of
   coverage
 Certificates shall be addressed to:
      City of Durham, North Carolina
      Attention: (your name and address)




RFP for Software Solution to Automate the City of Durham Employee Performance Evaluation Program page 38
