           REQUEST FOR COMPETITIVE SEALED PROPOSALS
                  FOR A GENERAL CONTRACTOR


                         MD ANDERSON CANCER CENTER
                          OST Building Demolition – Phase 3
                            MDACC Project No.: 10-0652
                               RFP No.: 380831/ME

                                      PRE-PROPOSAL CONFERENCE:

                              JANUARY 12, 2012 @ 9:00 AM LOCAL TIME

                                   JOB SITE at 1850 OLD SPANISH TRAIL
                                         HOUSTON, TEXAS 77030



                                         SUBMITTAL DUE DATE:

                                  JANUARY 26, 2012 @ 2:00 PM LOCAL TIME




                                                Prepared By:
                                        MD Anderson Cancer Center
                                      Sourcing & Contract Management
                                      1020 Holcombe Blvd., Suite1450
                                           Houston, Texas 77030
                                               713-745-8300




OFPC 11/23/09 (MDA 10/25/10JSW)                Request For Competitive Sealed Proposals   Page 1 of 16
                                         TABLE OF CONTENTS

Section 1 - General Information and                            3.1       Respondent’s Ability To Provide
Requirements                                                             Construction Services
1.1      General Information                                   3.2       Respondent’s Ability to Provide
                                                                         Construction Management Services
1.2      Public Information
                                                               3.3       Qualifications of Construction Team
1.3      Type of Contract
                                                               3.4       Respondent’s Past Performance on
1.4      Clarifications and Interpretations                              Representative Projects
1.5      Submission of Proposals                               3.5       Respondent’s Past Performance on U.T.
                                                                         System Projects
1.6      Point-Of-Contact
                                                               3.6       Respondent’s Project Planning and
1.7      Evaluation of Proposals                                         Scheduling for This Project
1.8      Owner’s Reservation of Rights                         3.7       Respondent’s Quality Control and
1.9      Acceptance of Evaluation Methodology                            Commissioning Program for This Project
                                                               3.8       Respondent’s Project Safety Program for
1.10     No Reimbursement for Costs
                                                                         This Project
1.11     Pre-Proposal Conference                               3.9       Respondent’s Warranty and Service Support
1.12     Eligible Respondents                                            Program for This Project
1.13     Historically Underutilized Businesses’                3.10      Respondent’s Pricing and Delivery Proposal
         Submittal Requirements – Please note
         the HUB Goal for this project
                                                               Section 4 - Format of Proposals
1.14     Certain Proposals and Contracts
                                                               4.1       General Instructions
         Prohibited
                                                               4.2       Page Size, Binding, Dividers and Tabs
1.15     Sales and Use Taxes
                                                               4.3       Table of Contents
1.16     Certification of Franchise Tax Status
                                                               4.4       Pagination
1.17     Required Notices of Workers’
         Compensation Insurance Coverage
1.18     Prevailing Minimum Wage Rate                          Section 5 - Attachments to the Proposal
         Determination                                         5.1       Attachment A – Draft Agreement and
                                                                         Exhibits
1.19     Delinquency in Paying Child Support
                                                               5.2       Attachment B – Exhibit H; Policy on
                                                                         Utilization of Historically Underutilized
Section 2 - Executive Summary                                            Businesses

2.1      Historical Background                                 5.3       Attachment C – Request for Information
                                                                         Form (RFI)
2.2      Mission Statement
                                                               5.4       Attachment D – Respondent’s Pricing and
2.3      Project Description and Scope                                   Delivery Proposal
2.4      Project Planning Schedule                             5.5       Attachment E – Job Site Detail
2.5      Construction Documents


Section 3 - Requirements For Competitive
Sealed Proposals




OFPC 11/23/09 (MDA 10/25/10JSW)                   Request For Competitive Sealed Proposals                  Page 2 of 16
                        REQUEST FOR COMPETITIVE SEALED PROPOSALS
                              MD ANDERSON CANCER CENTER
                                OST Building Demolition – Phase 3
                                      Project No. 10-0652
                                     RFP No.: 380831/ME


SECTION 1 – GENERAL INFORMATION AND REQUIREMENTS

1.1       GENERAL INFORMATION: The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center (“Owner”)
          is soliciting Competitive Sealed Proposals (“Proposals”) for selection of a General Contractor
          firm for OST Building Demolition - Phase 3, No. 10-0652, (“Project”), as authorized by Texas
          Education Code §51.783 and in accordance with the terms, conditions, and requirements set forth
          in this Request for Competitive Sealed Proposals (“RFP”).

      1.1.1   This RFP provides the information necessary to prepare and submit Competitive Sealed
              Proposals for consideration and ranking by the Owner.

      1.1.2   The Owner may select the Proposal that offers the “best value” for the institution based on
              the published selection criteria and on its ranking evaluation. The Owner may first attempt to
              negotiate a contract with the selected offeror. The Owner may discuss with the selected
              offeror options for a scope or time modification and any price change associated with the
              modification. If the board is unable to reach a contract with the selected offeror, the Owner
              may formally end negotiations with that offeror and proceed to the next “best value” offeror
              in the order of the selection ranking until a contract is reached or all proposals are rejected.

1.2       PUBLIC INFORMATION: All information, documentation, and other materials submitted in
          response to this solicitation are considered non-confidential and/or non-proprietary and are
          subject to public disclosure under the Texas Public Information Act (Texas Government Code,
          Chapter 552.001, et seq.) after the solicitation is completed.

      1.2.1   The Owner strictly complies with all statutes, court decisions, and opinions of the Texas
              Attorney General with respect to disclosure of RFP information.

1.3       TYPE OF CONTRACT: Any contract resulting from this solicitation will be in the form of the
          Owner’s Standard General Contractor Agreement, a copy of which is included in the Bidding
          Documents.

      1.3.1   If awarded, the work will be awarded as a Lump-Sum contract to the Respondent offering the
              “best value” to the Owner.

1.4       CLARIFICATIONS AND INTERPRETATIONS: Any clarifications or interpretations of this
          RFP that materially affect or change its requirements will be issued by the Owner as an
          Addendum on the MD Anderson web site (http://www.mdanderson.org/departments/bids) or by
          the Project Architect/Engineer. It is the responsibility of all respondents to obtain this
          information in a timely manner. All such Addenda issued by the Owner before the proposals are
          due as part of the RFP, and respondents shall acknowledge receipt of each Addendum to the RFP
          and/or the Bid Documents in its Proposal.

      1.4.1   No oral explanation in regard to the meaning of the Bidding Documents will be made and no
              oral instructions will be given before the award of the contract. Discrepancies, omissions or

OFPC 11/23/09 (MDA 10/25/10JSW)                  Request For Competitive Sealed Proposals           Page 3 of 16
              doubts as to the meaning of Drawings and Specifications shall be communicated in writing to
              the Project Architect for interpretation. Any interpretation made will be in the form of an
              Addendum, which will be forwarded to all known plan holders and its receipt by the
              respondent shall be acknowledged on the Pricing and Delivery Proposal Form.

      1.4.2   Respondents shall consider only those clarifications and interpretations to the Drawings and
              Specifications that the Project Architect issues by Addenda three (3) calendar days prior to
              the submittal deadline. Interpretations or clarifications in any other form, including oral
              statements, will not be binding on the Owner and should not be relied on in preparing
              Proposals.

1.5       SUBMISSION OF PROPOSALS:

      1.5.1   The Owner will receive Base Proposals, Alternate Proposals, if any, Qualifications, and HUB
              Subcontracting Plan at the time and location described below.

                      JANUARY 26, 2012 @ 2:00 PM LOCAL TIME

                      Physical Address for Courier Delivery:
                      The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center
                      Capital Planning and Management
                      6900 Fannin, Suite FHB 10.1010
                      Houston, Texas 77030
                      Attn: Mary E. Mueller

              1.5.1.1 Submit Eight (8) identical copies of the Base Proposal, Alternate Proposals, if any,
                      and Qualifications, as described in Section 4 of this RFP.

              1.5.1.2 Respondent must submit one (1) complete, virus free, exact copy of the RFP on a
                      CD. The CD must be submitted in a SEALED envelope apart from the other bid
                      documents and must be submitted at the same time the hard copy sealed documents
                      are submitted. The envelope containing the CD must clearly be labeled “RFP” and
                      have the name of the submitting firm, the project name, and the RFP number on both
                      the sealed envelope and on the CD.

      1.5.2       Submit the HUB Subcontracting Plan (HSP) as described in Section 4.1.1 of this RFP.
              All HUB Subcontracting Plans should be submitted by the bid closing date separate from the
              bid response in a SEALED Envelope.

      1.5.3       Base Proposals, Alternate Proposals, Qualifications or HUB Subcontracting Plans that are
              received late will be returned to the respondent unopened. The Point-of-Contact identified in
              Section 1.6 will identify the official time clock at the Proposal submittal location identified
              above.

      1.5.4       The Owner will not acknowledge or receive Base Proposals, Alternate Proposals,
              Qualifications or HUB Subcontracting Plans that are delivered by telephone, facsimile (fax),
              or electronic mail (e-mail).

      1.5.5      Properly submitted Base Proposals, Alternate Proposals, Qualifications or HUB
              Subcontracting Plans will not be returned to the respondents.



OFPC 11/23/09 (MDA 10/25/10JSW)                 Request For Competitive Sealed Proposals           Page 4 of 16
      1.5.6       Base Proposals, Alternate Proposals, and Qualifications materials must be enclosed in a
              sealed envelope (box or container) addressed to the Point-of-Contact identified in Section 1.6;
              the package must clearly identify the submittal deadline, the RFP Number, and the name and
              return address of the Respondent. HUB Subcontracting Plan is to be delivered in a separate
              sealed envelope.

      1.5.7       Properly submitted Proposals will be opened publicly and the names of the respondents
              will be read aloud after the HUB Subcontracting Plans are received and confirmed by the
              Owner.

1.6       POINT-OF-CONTACT: The Owner designates the following person, as its representative and
          Point-of-Contact for this RFP. Respondents shall restrict all contact with the Owner and direct all
          questions regarding this RFP, including questions regarding terms and conditions, to the Point-of-
          Contact person.

                      Mary E. Mueller
                      The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center
                      Sourcing & Contract Management
                      Fax:   713 / 745-5814
                      Email: memueller@mdanderson.org

      1.6.1       The Owner designates the following person, as its Architect/Engineer representative
              regarding the technical Drawings and Specifications.

                      Ron Wedemeyer
                      The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center
                      MD Anderson Design Services Group
                      6900 Fannin, Suite 2.1010
                      Houston, Texas 77030
                      Phone: 713 / 563-4338
                      Fax:   713 / 563-1805
                      Email: rwedemeyer@mdanderson.org

1.7       EVALUATION OF PROPOSALS: The evaluation of the Proposals shall be based on the
          requirements described in this RFP. Approximately Forty Percent, (40%) of the evaluation will
          be based on the Respondent’s Pricing and Delivery Proposal; the remaining evaluation will be
          based on the Respondent’s qualifications. All properly submitted Proposals will be reviewed,
          evaluated, and ranked by the Owner.

1.8       OWNER’S RESERVATION OF RIGHTS: The Owner may evaluate the Proposals based on the
          anticipated completion of all or any portion of the Project. The Owner reserves the right to divide
          the Project into multiple parts, to reject any and all Proposals and re-solicit for new Proposals, or
          to reject any and all Proposals and temporarily or permanently abandon the Project. Owner
          makes no representations, written or oral, that it will enter into any form of agreement with any
          respondent to this RFP for any project and no such representation is intended or should be
          construed by the issuance of this RFP.

      1.8.1   Respondent understands and agrees that this RFP and any subsequent Agreement ensuing
              from this RFP is contingent upon approval by Owner, The University of Texas Board of
              Regents, and the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board. Respondent understands and
              agrees that Owner has made no representation, written or oral, that any such approvals will
              actually be obtained. If any such approvals are not obtained, Respondent understands and

OFPC 11/23/09 (MDA 10/25/10JSW)                  Request For Competitive Sealed Proposals            Page 5 of 16
               agrees that this RFP and any subsequent Agreement ensuring from this RFP will be null,
               void, and of no effect.

1.9       ACCEPTANCE OF EVALUATION METHODOLOGY: By submitting its Proposals in
          response to this RFP, the Respondent accepts the evaluation process and acknowledges and
          accepts that determination of the “best value” Respondent will require subjective judgments by
          the Owner.

      1.9.1       The Owner reserves the right to consider any Proposal “non-responsive” if the Base
               Proposal Cost is determined to be unreasonable or irresponsible in relation to the other
               submitted Proposals and/or the Owner’s estimate of the construction cost.

1.10      NO REIMBURSEMENT FOR COSTS: Respondent acknowledges and accepts that any costs
          incurred from the respondent’s participation in this RFP process shall be at the sole risk and
          responsibility of the respondent. Respondents submit Proposals at their own risk and expense.

1.11      PRE-PROPOSAL CONFERENCE: A pre-proposal conference will be held at the time and
          location described below.

                           JANUARY 12, 2012 @ 9:00 AM LOCAL TIME

                           The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center
                           Job Site at 1850 Old Spanish Trail
                           Houston, Texas 77030

      1.11.1      A guided tour of the project site will be included as a part of the conference agenda. This
               may be the only opportunity for potential respondents to view the project site before the
               submittal of Proposals. Attendance at the pre-proposal conference is optional.

1.12      ELIGIBLE RESPONDENTS: Only individual firms or lawfully formed business organizations
          may apply (This does not preclude a respondent from using consultants.) The Owner will
          contract only with the individual firm or formal organization that submits a Proposal.

1.13      HISTORICALLY UNDERUTILIZED BUSINESSES SUBMITTAL REQUIREMENTS: It is
          the policy of The University of Texas System, and each of its component institutions, to promote
          and encourage contracting and subcontracting opportunities for Historically Underutilized
          Businesses (HUB) in all contracts. Accordingly, the Owner has adopted Exhibit H, Policy on
          Utilization of Historically Underutilized Businesses (included in the Bidding Documents). The
          Policy applies to all contracts with an expected value of $100,000 or more. If Owner determines
          that subcontracting opportunities are probable, then a HUB Subcontracting Plan is a required
          element of the Proposals. Failure to submit a required HUB Subcontracting Plan will result in
          rejection of the Proposals.

      1.13.1 HUB STATEMENT

               Owner has determined that subcontracting opportunities are probable in connection with this
               procurement solicitation. Therefore, a HUB Subcontracting Plan (HSP) is required as a part
               of the respondent's Qualifications. The respondent shall develop and administer a HSP as a
               part of the respondent's Qualifications in accordance with the Owner’s Policy on Utilization
               of Historically Underutilized Businesses (HUB).



OFPC 11/23/09 (MDA 10/25/10JSW)                  Request For Competitive Sealed Proposals          Page 6 of 16
    1.13.2 The HUB Subcontracting goal for this project is Thirty-Seven Percent (37%). Respondents
           Are expected to make a good faith effort meeting this goal.

    1.13.3 All HUB Subcontracting Plans must be submitted by the bid closing date SEPARATE from
           the bid response in a SEALED Envelope.

    1.13.4 Refer to Exhibit H – Policy on Utilization, Historically Underutilized Business (attached) and
           the Summary of Requirements for a detailed list of attachments required with the
           Qualifications.

    1.13.5 The “Statement of Probability” determines the probability for subcontracting opportunities.
           This determination will clarify which attachments, detailed in Figure 1, will be required to be
           completed and returned.

    1.13.6 Submit the HUB Subcontracting Plan as described in Section 4.1.1 of this RFP.

1.14     CERTAIN PROPOSALS AND CONTRACTS PROHIBITED: Under Section 2155.004, Texas
         Government Code, a state agency may not accept a proposal or award a contract that includes
         proposed financial participation by a person who received compensation from the agency to
         participate in preparing the specifications or request for proposals on which the proposal or
         contract is based. All vendors must certify their eligibility by acknowledging the following
         statement, "Under Section 2155.004, Government Code, the vendor certifies that the individual or
         business entity named in this bid or contract is not ineligible to receive the specified contract and
         acknowledges that this contract may be terminated and payment withheld if this certification is
         inaccurate." If a state agency determines that an individual or business entity holding a state
         contract was ineligible to have the contract accepted or awarded as described above, the state
         agency may immediately terminate the contract without further obligation to the vendor. This
         section does not create a cause of action to contest a proposal or award of a state contract.

1.15     SALES AND USE TAXES: Section 151.311, Tax Code, as amended effective October 1, 1993,
         permits the purchase free of state sales and use taxes of tangible personal property to be
         incorporated into realty in the performance of a contract for an improvement to realty for certain
         exempt entities that include The University of Texas System. The section further permits the
         purchase tax-free of tangible personal property (other than machinery or equipment and its
         accessories and repair and replacement parts) for use in the performance of such a contract if the
         property is "necessary and essential for the performance of the contract" and "completely
         consumed at the job site." In addition, the section permits the purchase tax-free of a tangible
         service for use in the performance of such a contract if the service is performed at the job site and
         if "the contract expressly requires the specific service to be provided or purchased by the person
         performing the contract" or "the service is integral to the performance of the contract."

1.16     CERTIFICATION OF FRANCHISE TAX STATUS: Respondents are advised that the
         successful respondent will be required to submit certification of franchise tax status as required
         by State Law (H.B. 175, Acts 70th Leg. R.S., 1987, Ch. 283, p. 3242). The Respondent further
         agrees that each subcontractor and supplier under contract will also provide a certification of
         franchise tax status.

1.17     REQUIRED NOTICES OF WORKERS' COMPENSATION INSURANCE COVERAGE: The
         Texas Workers' Compensation Commission has adopted a new rule, 28 TAC, sec. 110.110,
         relating to REPORTING REQUIREMENTS FOR BUILDING OR CONSTRUCTION
         PROJECTS FOR GOVERNMENTAL ENTITIES. The rule applies to all building or
         construction contracts advertised for bid on or after September 1, 1994. The rule implements sec.

OFPC 11/23/09 (MDA 10/25/10JSW)                 Request For Competitive Sealed Proposals            Page 7 of 16
         406.096, Texas Labor Code, which requires workers' compensation insurance coverage for all
         persons providing services on a building or construction project for a governmental entity. The
         requirements of the rule are set forth in the Uniform General and Supplementary General
         Conditions for The University of Texas System Building Construction Contracts.

1.18     PREVAILING MINIMUM WAGE RATE DETERMINATION: Respondents are advised that
         the Texas Prevailing Wage Law will be administered in accordance with the policies and
         procedures set forth in the U. T. System document, entitled "Prevailing Wage Guidelines." A
         copy is attached to the Special Conditions. The penalty for violation of prevailing wage rates has
         been increased from $10.00 per underpaid worker per day or portion thereof to $60.00.

1.19     DELINQUENCY IN PAYING CHILD SUPPORT: Under Section 231.006, Family Code, the
         vendor or applicant certifies that the individual or business entity named in this contract, bid, or
         application is not ineligible to receive the specified grant, loan, or payment and acknowledges
         that this contract may be terminated and payment may be withheld if this certification is
         inaccurate.

1.20     FINANCIAL COMMITMENT: The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center is an
         institution of The University of Texas System, which consists of nine universities and six health
         institutions.

         1.20.1 Each UT System campus is a financially separate entity and shall be solely responsible
                for the financial commitments of that institution.


SECTION 2 – EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

2.1      HISTORICAL BACKGROUND:

         MD Anderson is known throughout the world for high-quality cancer care, research, academic
         programs and prevention services. Since its establishment in 1941, MD Anderson has made
         major contributions to improve the outlook for cancer patients everywhere.

         MD Anderson was one of the first three federally designated comprehensive cancer centers by the
         National Cancer Act of 1971. A survey of health professionals has routinely ranked MD
         Anderson as one of the two premier cancer centers in the nation for the past eight years. Over
         55,000 persons annually seek care at MD Anderson. The team approach to cancer care,
         pioneered at MD Anderson, has been strengthened by consolidating specialty clinics into multi-
         disciplinary care centers that allow patients to receive more ambulatory care and treatment in a
         single location.

         MD Anderson offers one of the largest bone marrow and stem cell transplantation programs, as
         well as clinical trials to improve existing therapies. Teams of clinical specialists collaborate with
         scientists on problems of common interest and test theories that shorten the application of better
         treatment methods. Translational research studies are responsible for the promising field of
         chemoprevention, which uses synthetic vitamins to reverse pre-malignant lesions and halt the
         recurrence of some cancers, and for innovative gene therapy strategies being evaluated for several
         forms of cancer.

         With faculty and staff working in more than 30 buildings in the greater Houston area and in
         central Texas, MD Anderson is the largest freestanding cancer center in the world. The physical
         plant covers more than 11 million square feet, featuring the latest equipment and facilities to

OFPC 11/23/09 (MDA 10/25/10JSW)                 Request For Competitive Sealed Proposals            Page 8 of 16
         support growing needs in outpatient and inpatient care, research, prevention and education. It
         includes inpatient hospital facilities with 571 beds.

         Construction projects include the addition of 12 floors that can accommodate more than 300 new
         inpatient beds in Alkek Hospital on the North Campus; two new research buildings on the South
         Campus that will house the Center for Advanced Biomedical Imaging Research and Center for
         Targeted Therapy as part of the McCombs Institute; and MD Anderson’s first facility on its Mid
         Campus, a 25-story building to support current office space and future growth needs.
         In addition to its main campus in the Texas Medical Center and two research campuses in Bastrop
         County, Texas, MD Anderson has developed a number of local, national and international
         affiliations.

2.2      MISSION STATEMENT:

         Mission. The mission of MD Anderson is to eliminate cancer in Texas, the nation and the world
         through outstanding integrated programs in patient care, research, education and prevention.

         Vision. We shall be the premier cancer center in the world, based on the excellence of our
         people, our research-driven patient care and our science. We are Making Cancer History.

         Core Values.
              Caring: By our words and actions, we create a caring environment for everyone.
                  Integrity: We work together to merit the trust of our colleagues and those we serve.

                  Discovery: We embrace creativity and seek new knowledge.

2.3      PROJECT DESCRIPTION AND SCOPE:

         Asbestos abatement and demolition of existing two story building and associated out buildings
         located at 1850 Old Spanish Trail, Houston, Texas, 77030. This project also includes the
         construction of a new drive-thru access gate on adjacent property.

2.4      PROJECT PLANNING SCHEDULE:

         The following anticipated dates are for planning purposes only (if there is a conflict between the
         dates below and the Proposal Form, the duration shown on the Proposal Form shall govern). The
         contractual dates required by the Owner of the “best value” respondent will be identified in the
         executed agreement.

            Owner conducts Pre-Proposal Conference                                  Refer to Section 1.11
            RFI Submittal Deadline by 4:00 PM                                       January 16, 2012
            RFI Questions and Answers Posted to Website                             January 19, 2012
            Owner receives Request For Competitive Sealed Proposals                 Refer to Section 1.5
            Owner receives Qualifications/HUB Subcontracting Plan                   Refer to Section 1.5
            Owner determines Contractor offering “Best Value”                       February 9, 2012
            Selected Contractor delivers executed Agreement to Owner                February 24, 2012
            Owner issues Notice to Proceed with Construction                        March 8, 2012
            Contractor achieves Substantial Completion                              September 5, 2012
            Contractor achieves Final Completion                                    October 5, 2012




OFPC 11/23/09 (MDA 10/25/10JSW)                 Request For Competitive Sealed Proposals                     Page 9 of 16
2.5       CONSTRUCTION DOCUMENTATION:

          Construction Documents, Issued for Bid & Construction, are available for purchase at:

                      ARC
                      2900 Smith Street
                      Houston, Texas 77006
                      Attn: Mr. Todd Benton
                      Phone:     713 / 787-1206
                      Email:     todd.benton@e-arc.com

          Interested bidders will not be reimbursed for costs associated with obtaining copies of
          construction documents.

SECTION 3 – REQUIREMENTS FOR COMPETITIVE SEALED PROPOSALS

Respondents shall carefully read the information contained in the following criteria and submit a
complete statement of Proposals to all questions in Section 3 formatted as directed in Section 4.
Incomplete Proposals will be considered non-responsive and subject to rejection.

3.1       CRITERIA ONE: RESPONDENT’S ABILITY TO PROVIDE CONSTRUCTION SERVICES

      3.1.1   Provide a statement of interest for the Project including a narrative describing the
              respondent’s unique qualifications as they pertain to this particular Project.

      3.1.2   Provide a statement on the availability and commitment of the respondent, its principal(s) and
              assigned professionals to undertake the Project.

3.2       CRITERIA TWO: RESPONDENT’S                     ABILITY          TO      PROVIDE   CONSTRUCTION
          MANAGEMENT SERVICES

      3.2.1   Provide the following information on your firm for the past five (5) fiscal years:

              Volume
               Annual number, value and percent change of contracts in Texas per year;
               Annual number, value and percent change of contracts nationally per year;
              Revenues
               Annual revenue totals and percent change per year;
              Bonding
               Total bonding capacity;
               Available bonding capacity and current backlog;

      3.2.2   Attach a letter of intent from a surety company indicating your firm’s ability to bond for the
              entire construction cost of the project. The surety shall acknowledge that the firm may be
              bonded for the full amount of the project. Bonding requirements are set forth in the
              Agreement and in the Uniform General and Supplementary General Conditions for The
              University of Texas System Building Construction Contracts.

      3.2.3   Identify if your firm is currently for sale or involved in any transaction to expand or to
              become acquired by another business entity. If so, please explain the impact both in
              organization and company direction.


OFPC 11/23/09 (MDA 10/25/10JSW)                  Request For Competitive Sealed Proposals          Page 10 of 16
      3.2.4   Provide details of any past or pending litigation, or claims filed, against your firm that may
              affect your performance under a Contract with the Owner.

      3.2.5   Identify if your firm is currently in default on any loan agreement or financing agreement
              with any bank, financial institution, or other entity. If so, specify date(s), details,
              circumstances, and prospects for resolution.

      3.2.6   Does any relationship exist by relative, business associate, capital funding agreement, or any
              other such kinship between your firm and any Owner employee, officer or Regent? If so,
              please explain.

3.3       CRITERIA THREE: QUALIFICATIONS OF CONSTRUCTION TEAM

      3.3.1   Provide resumes of the Respondent’s team that will be directly involved in the Project,
              including their experience with similar projects, the number of years with the firm, and their
              city(s) of residence. Include as applicable; Project Managers, Superintendents, Assistant
              Project Managers and Superintendents, Expeditors, Project Scheduler, Quality Control
              Inspectors, Safety Coordinator / Assistant, Carpenter Forman, and Labor Forman.

      3.3.2   For the each team member identified above, provide his/her current status, and when each
              team member will be available to provide Construction Services for this Project.

      3.3.3   Describe, in graphic and written form, the proposed Project assignments and lines of
              authority and communication for each team member to be directly involved in the Project.
              Indicate the estimated percent of time these team members will be involved in the
              Construction Services.

3.4       CRITERIA FOUR: RESPONDENT’S PAST PERFORMANCE ON REPRESENTATIVE
             PROJECTS

      3.4.1   Identify and describe the Construction Team’s past experience for providing Construction
              Services that are most similar to this project within the last five (5) years. List the projects in
              order of priority, with the most similar project listed first. Provide the following information
              for each project listed:

                 Project name, location, contract delivery method, and description
                 Color images (photographic or machine reproductions)
                 Final construction cost
                 Final project size in gross square feet
                 Type of construction (new, renovation, or expansion)
                 Actual Notice To Proceed, Substantial Completion, and Final Payment dates for
                  Construction Services
                 Name of Project Manager (individual responsible to the Owner for the overall success of
                  the project)
                 Name of Project Superintendent (individual responsible for coordinating the day to day
                  work)
                 Names of Mechanical, Plumbing and Electrical Subcontractors

              References (for each project listed above, identify the following):

                 The Owner’s representative who served as the day-to-day liaison during construction,
                  including telephone number

OFPC 11/23/09 (MDA 10/25/10JSW)                   Request For Competitive Sealed Proposals            Page 11 of 16
                 Architect/Engineer’s name and representative who served as the day-to-day liaison
                  during construction, including telephone number
                 Length of business relationship with the Owner

                  References shall be considered relevant based on specific project participation and
                  experience with the respondent. The Owner may contact references during any part of
                  this process. The Owner reserves the right to contact any other references at any time
                  during the RFP process.

      3.4.2   Attachment A is a draft copy of the Competitive Sealed Proposal Agreement for Owner.
              Identify any terms of the Agreement you will require to be changed prior to signing the
              Owner’s Competitive Sealed Proposal Agreement.

3.5       CRITERIA FIVE: RESPONDENT’S PAST PERFORMANCE ON U.T. SYSTEM PROJECTS

      3.5.1   Identify and describe the Construction Team’s past experience for providing Construction
              Services on University of Texas System projects within the last five (5) years.

              If the respondent has not previously provided Construction Services for The University of
              Texas System, then identify and describe the respondent’s past performance on Construction
              projects for “major” institutions of higher education (or similar) within the last five (5) years.
              Projects may repeat with Section 3.4 above.

              In either case above, provide the following information for each project listed:

                 Project name, location, contract delivery method, and description
                 Color images (photographic or machine reproductions)
                 Final construction cost
                 Final project size in gross square feet
                 Type of construction (new, renovation, or expansion)
                 Actual Notice To Proceed, Substantial Completion, and Final Payment dates for
                  Construction Services
                 Name of Project Manager (individual responsible to the Owner for the overall success of
                  the project)
                 Name of Project Superintendent (individual responsible for coordinating the day to day
                  work)
                 Names of Mechanical, Plumbing and Electrical Subcontractors

3.6       CRITERIA SIX: RESPONDENT’S PROJECT PLANNING AND SCHEDULING FOR THIS
             PROJECT

      3.6.1   Provide a CPM Milestone schedule for this Project as described in Owner Specification
              Section 01 32 00 using the Project Planning Schedule and identify specific critical process,
              phases, milestones, approvals, and procurements anticipated. Clearly identify the 10% Total
              Project Float required during the Construction Phase.

      3.6.2   Describe what you perceive are the critical Construction issues for this Project.

      3.6.3   Describe your approach to assuring timely completion of this project, including methods for
              schedule recovery, if necessary. From any three (3) of the projects listed in response to
              Section 3.3 or 3.4 of this RFP, provide examples of how these techniques were used,
              including specific scheduling challenges/requirements and actual solutions.

OFPC 11/23/09 (MDA 10/25/10JSW)                  Request For Competitive Sealed Proposals            Page 12 of 16
3.7       CRITERIA SEVEN: RESPONDENT’S QUALITY CONTROL AND COMMISSIONING
             PROGRAM FOR THIS PROJECT

      3.7.1   Describe your quality control program. Explain the methods used to ensure quality control
              during the Construction phase of a project. Provide specific examples of how these
              techniques or procedures were used from any of three (3) projects listed in response to
              Section 3.4 or 3.5 of this RFP.

      3.7.2   Describe how your quality control team will measure the quality of construction and
              commissioning performed by trade Subcontractors as required by Owner specifications on
              this Project, and how will you address non-conforming work.

      3.7.3   Provide examples of records, reports, monitoring systems, and information management
              systems you will use on this Project.

      3.7.4   Describe your Best Management Practices for containing storm water run-off as required by
              the Environmental Protection Agency’s National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System and
              The University of Texas Systems Storm Water Pollution Prevention Program.

3.8       CRITERIA EIGHT: RESPONDENT’S PROJECT SAFETY PROGRAM FOR THIS PROJECT

      3.8.1   Describe your job site safety program for this Project and specific safety policies in which
              employees must be in compliance.

      3.8.2   Identify any deaths that have occurred on a project site controlled by your firm, or any
              subcontractor(s) (at any contractual level), that had a death on your project site? If so,
              describe how you have revised your program.

      3.8.3   Identify the proposed safety management team members for Construction services. Identify
              their intended percent of monthly involvement and duration for this Project. Include all
              details necessary to demonstrate the credentials required by Project Safety specification.

      3.8.4   Describe the methodology, including any technology or other assets, that the firm intends to
              use for prevention and/or control of incidents and insurance claims on this Project.

      3.8.5   Identify (in separate figures) the percentage of the Construction Cost that is to be included in
              the Project General Conditions for each of the following pieces of the Project Safety
              Program:
               on-site safety education & training,
               personal protective equipment, signage, and hardware,
               first aid and emergency response equipment,
               safety incentives and recognition,
               contingency for post incident drug testing and incident management costs
               Miscellaneous other safety-related expenses (NOTE: DO NOT LIST items that will
                  appear elsewhere in the Project’s General Conditions; office equipment, salaries, etc.)

      3.8.6   Briefly describe the firm’s approach for anticipating, recognizing and controlling safety risks
              and note the safety resources that the firm provides for each project’s Safety program.



OFPC 11/23/09 (MDA 10/25/10JSW)                  Request For Competitive Sealed Proposals          Page 13 of 16
      3.8.7   Describe the level of importance for Enforcement and Support of Project Safety that the firm
              includes in performance evaluations for Superintendents and Project Managers.

      3.8.8   Describe the Safety and Insurance/Claims History information and weighting that the firm
              includes in the submission and award process for “best value” Subcontracts.

      3.8.9   For all projects that the firm has managed (or co-managed) in the past five (5) years, list and
              describe all events or incidents that have reached any of the following levels of severity:
               Any occupational illness or injury that resulted in death or total and permanent disability
               Three occupational illnesses or injuries that resulted in hospital admittances
               Explosion, fire or water damage that claimed 5% of the project’s construction value
               Failure, collapse, or overturning of a scaffold, excavation, crane or motorized mobile
                  equipment when workers were present at the project

3.9       CRITERIA NINE: RESPONDENT’S WARRANTY AND SERVICE SUPPORT PROGRAM
             FOR THIS PROJECT

      3.9.1   Describe your warranty service support philosophy and warranty service implementation plan
              for this Project.

      3.9.2   Describe how you will measure the quality of service provided to the Owner for this Project.

      3.9.3   Provide reference letters from three (3) Owners (other than U.T. System) identified in
              Sections 3.3 OR 3.4 of the previously issued RFP that describe your response to, and
              performance on, warranty services AFTER substantial completion.

3.10      CRITERIA TEN: RESPONDENT’S PRICING AND DELIVERY PROPOSAL

      3.10.1 Complete the “Respondent’s Pricing and Delivery Proposal” included with the Bidding
             Documents.


SECTION 4 – FORMAT OF PROPOSALS

4.1       GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS

      4.1.1   Proposals shall be prepared SIMPLY AND ECONOMICALLY, providing a straightforward,
              CONCISE description of the respondent's ability to meet the requirements of this RFP.
              Emphasis shall be on the QUALITY, completeness, clarity of content, responsiveness to the
              requirements, and an understanding of Owner's needs. Each bound copy must be in the
              following order.

                          Cover
                          Cover Letter
                          Table of Contents
                          CRITERIA ONE: RESPONDENT’S ABILITY TO PROVIDE
                           CONSTRUCTION SERVICES
                          CRITERIA TWO: RESPONDENT’S ABILITY TO PROVIDE
                           CONSTRUCTION MANAGEMENT SERVICES
                          CRITERIA THREE: QUALIFICATIONS OF CONSTRUCTION TEAM
                          CRITERIA FOUR: RESPONDENT’S PAST PERFORMANCE ON
                           REPRESENTATIVE PROJECTS

OFPC 11/23/09 (MDA 10/25/10JSW)                 Request For Competitive Sealed Proposals          Page 14 of 16
                          CRITERIA FIVE: RESPONDENT’S PAST PERFORMANCE ON U.T.
                           SYSTEM PROJECTS
                          CRITERIA SIX: RESPONDENT’S PROJECT PLANNING AND
                           SCHEDULING FOR THIS PROJECT
                          CRITERIA SEVEN: RESPONDENT’S QUALITY CONTROL AND
                           COMMISSIONING PROGRAM FOR THIS PROJECT
                          CRITERIA EIGHT: RESPONDENT’S PROJECT SAFETY PROGRAM FOR
                           THIS PROJECT
                          CRITERIA NINE: RESPONDENT’S WARRANTY AND SERVICE SUPPORT
                           PROGRAM FOR THIS PROJECT
                          CRITERIA TEN: RESPONDENT’S PRICING AND DELIVERY PROPOSAL
                          HUB SUBCONTRACTING PLAN –The HUB Subcontracting Plan must be
                           submitted at the same time the sealed proposal/bid is submitted. The
                           envelope containing the HUB Subcontracting Plan must be separate from
                           the proposal, must clearly be labeled “HUB Subcontracting Plan”, and
                           marked with the project name and the bid/proposal number.


      4.1.2   Proposals shall be a MAXIMUM OF FIFTY (50) PRINTED PAGES. The cover, table of
              contents, divider sheets, HUB Subcontracting Plan (Section 1.13), Pricing and Delivery
              Proposal, and Execution of Offer do not count as printed pages.

      4.1.3   Respondents shall carefully read the information contained in this RFP and submit a complete
              response to all requirements and questions as directed. Incomplete Proposals will be
              considered non-responsive and subject to rejection.

      4.1.4   Proposals and any other information submitted by respondents in response to this RFP shall
              become the property of the Owner.

      4.1.5   Proposals that are qualified with conditional clauses, alterations, items not called for in the
              RFP documents, or irregularities of any kind are subject to rejection by the Owner, at its
              option.

      4.1.6   The Owner makes no representations of any kind that an award will be made as a result of
              this RFP. The Owner reserves the right to accept or reject any or all Proposals , waive any
              formalities or minor technical inconsistencies, or delete any item/requirements from this RFP
              when deemed to be in Owner's best interest.

      4.1.7   Proposals shall consist of answers to questions identified in Section 3 of the RFP. Separate
              each section of the Qualifications by use of a divider sheet with an integral tab for ready
              reference. Identify the tabs in accordance with the parts under Section 3, which is to be
              consistent with the Table of Contents. TAB IDENTIFICATION BY NUMBERS ONLY IS
              NOT ACCEPTABLE.

      4.1.8   Failure to comply with all requirements contained in this Request for Proposals may result in
              the rejection of the Proposals.

4.2       PAGE SIZE, BINDING, DIVIDERS AND TABS:

      4.2.1   Proposals shall be printed on letter-size (8-1/2” x 11”) paper and assembled with spiral-type
              bindings or staples. DO NOT USE METAL-RING HARD COVER BINDERS.


OFPC 11/23/09 (MDA 10/25/10JSW)                 Request For Competitive Sealed Proposals          Page 15 of 16
      4.2.2   Additional attachments shall NOT be included with the Proposals. Only the responses
              provided by the Respondent to the questions identified in Section 3 of this RFP will be used
              by the Owner for evaluation.

      4.2.3   Separate and identify each criteria response to Section 3 of this RFP by use of a divider sheet
              with an integral tab for ready reference.

4.3       TABLE OF CONTENTS:

      4.3.1   Submittals shall include a “Table of Contents” and give page numbers for each part the
              Qualifications.

4.4       PAGINATION:

      4.4.1   Number all pages of the submittal sequentially using Arabic numerals (1, 2, 3, etc.); the
              Respondent is not required to number the pages of the HUB Subcontracting Plan.




SECTION 5 – ATTACHMENTS TO THE PROPOSAL

5.1       Attachment A – Draft Agreement and Exhibits
5.2       Attachment B – Exhibit H; Policy on Utilization of Historically Underutilized Businesses
5.3       Attachment C – Request for Information Form (RFI)
5.4       Attachment D – Respondent’s Pricing and Delivery Proposal
5.5       Attachment E – Job Site Detail




OFPC 11/23/09 (MDA 10/25/10JSW)                 Request For Competitive Sealed Proposals          Page 16 of 16
