                 REQUEST FOR PROPOSALS

                           Construction Manager/
                            General Contractor
                                    for
                            Rock Creek Campus




                                                                    DUE DATE AND TIME:
                                                        2:00 P.M., November 14, 2011



Issuing Office: Portland Community College        Contact Name: Avelina Gulmatico
                Capitol Park                      Bond Procurement
                9700 SW Capitol Hwy., Suite 260   Phone: 971-722-8416
                Portland, OR 97219                Fax: 503-459-4701
                http://www.pcc.edu/bond           Email : agulmati@pcc.edu
                                      TABLE OF CONTENTS



Legal Advertisement

Section 1:   Introduction

             1.    Project Introduction ............................................................. 4
             2.    PCC Introduction ................................................................. 4
             3.    Sustainability ....................................................................... 5
             4.    Rock Creek Campus Information ........................................ 5
             5.    CM/GC Approach................................................................ 5

Section 2:   Project Information

             1.    Bond Program background .................................................. 6
             2.    Overview of the RC Bond Program..................................... 6
             3.    Scope of work ...................................................................... 6
             4.    Additional requirements ...................................................... 7
             5.    Proposal procedure .............................................................. 7

Section 3:   Proposal Terms and Conditions

             1.    Codes, Ordinances and Permits ........................................... 14
             2.    Liability for Damages .......................................................... 14
             3.    Inquiries and RFP requests .................................................. 14
             4.    Public Information and Trade Secrets ................................. 15
             5.    RFP Protests ........................................................................ 15
             6.    Contact information ............................................................. 16
             7.    Sufficiency ........................................................................... 16
             8.    Rejection of Proposals ......................................................... 16
             9.    Contract renewal .................................................................. 17
             10.   Independent Contractor/Partnership .................................... 17
             12.   Licenses ............................................................................... 17
             13.   MWESB............................................................................... 18
             14.   Immigration Reform ............................................................ 18
             15.   Cost of Proposal................................................................... 18
             16.   Taxes.................................................................................... 18
             17.   Payment ............................................................................... 18
             18.   Contract ............................................................................... 18
             19.   Finacial interest, fraud ......................................................... 19
             20.   Sub-contractors .................................................................... 19
             21.   Good Faith Effort................................................................. 20
             22.   Duration of offer .................................................................. 20
             23.   Risk of Loss and Damage .................................................... 20
             24.   Publicity ............................................................................... 20
             25.   Reservations......................................................................... 2
             26.   Ownership of proposal document ........................................ 21
             27.   Sufficient Information ......................................................... 21


                                                                2
               28.   Separate contract.................................................................. 21
               29.   Headings .............................................................................. 21
               30.   Prevailing opinion................................................................ 21

Section 4: Proposal Evaluation and Award Process:

               1.    Evaluation criteria................................................................ 22
               2.    References ........................................................................... 24
               3.    Evaluation and award process ............................................. 24
               4.    Notice of Intent to Award .................................................... 25
               5.    Award Protest ...................................................................... 25



APPENDICES:

APPENDIX A:            Certification and Contract Offer
APPENDIX B:            Standard Form of Agreement between Owner and Construction Manager
                       & General Conditions of the Contract of Construction




                                                                 3
COPY OF LEGAL ADVERTISEMENT:

Notice is hereby given that Portland Community College (“PCC” or “College”) is requesting
sealed proposals from contractors with the knowledge and expertise to provide Construction
Manager/General Contractor (CM/GC) services associated with the expansion and renovation of
PCC Rock Creek Campus located at 17705 NW Springville Road, Portland OR 97229.
Services include and are not limited to capital improvements, renovations, storm water and site
improvements, and selected maintenance projects at the Rock Creek Campus. This Request for
Proposals (RFP) will be used to evaluate and select qualified CM/GC for the Rock Creek
Campus Bond Construction and Renovations projects.

A complete description of the project, requirements, and specific conditions for this RFP is
available to download from the PCC Solicitation Opportunities link:
http://www.pcc.edu/purchasing. Interested proposers who are not equipped to download the
document may request a copy of the RFP by contacting Avelina Gulmatico, Bond Procurement
Coordinator, phone: 971-722-8416 or by sending an email request to agulmati@pcc.edu.

A mandatory pre-proposal conference will be held on October 25, 2011 starts at 11:00 A.M.
The attendance sign-up sheet must contain, at least, a firm representative’s signature to
participate in the process thereafter and to be considered for award. Following the conference, a
tour of the site and existing facility will be held.

Sealed proposals will be received at the issuing office, Bond Procurement Office, Capitol Park
Suite #260, 9700 SW Capitol Highway, Portland OR 97219. Deadline for submitting a
proposal will be no later than 2:00 P.M., November 14, 2011. The office is open Monday to
Friday from 8:00 A.M., thru 5:00 P.M.

State of Oregon Prevailing Wage Rates for Public Works Contracts in Oregon shall be utilized
for all labor involved in this Contract, including Wage Rates and Certification of payroll as
required by the Bureau of Labor & Industries.

The Board of Directors reserves the right to reject any and all proposals and to waive
irregularities. The College may also reject any proposal not in compliance with the prescribed
public procedures and requirements, and may reject for good cause any and all proposals upon
finding of the College that it is in the public interest to do so.

Each proposal must contain a statement as to whether the bidder is a resident bidder, as defined
in ORS 279.029.

Minority-owned, Women-owned, and Emerging Small Business Enterprises will be afforded full
opportunity to submit their proposal in response to this solicitation and will not be discriminated
against on the grounds of race, color, or national origin in consideration for an award of any
contract entered into pursuant to this advertisement.

Dated this 14th day of October, 2011

Published in the following publications:
Daily Journal of Commerce                State of Oregon ORPIN System
PCC Solicitation website: http://www.pcc.edu/purchasing




                                             4
SECTION 1. INTRODUCTION

1.1     Project Introduction

PCC is requesting sealed proposals from contractors with the knowledge and expertise to provide
Construction Manager/General Contractor (CM/GC) services associated with the expansion and
renovation of PCC Rock Creek Campus located at 17705 NW Springville Road, Portland OR 97229.
Services include and not be limited to capital improvements, renovations, storm water and site
improvements, and selected maintenance projects for the Rock Creek Campus. This Request for
Proposal (RFP) will be used to evaluate and select qualified CM/GC for the Rock Creek Campus Bond
Construction and Renovations projects.

Renovations to buildings will include energy efficient upgrades as part of the College’s Sustainability
initiatives. Surface water runoff and landscape improvements are planned, as well as circulation
improvements. The College intends to enter into a Contract with the selected CM/GC, which will
include a fee based on negotiated construction management labor rates per hour for the activities up
through submittal of a guaranteed maximum price (GMP), and a fixed fee for all other work through
construction and completion of the project.

It is the goal of the College to provide opportunities for smaller general contractors for portions of the
construction projects on the Rock Creek campus. One of the primary considerations for selection of a
CMCG will be the demonstrated willingness and ability of the proposer to work creatively with the
College to identify projects and establish procedures to successfully engage smaller general contractors.

This RFP may contain detailed description of the required goods and services, as well as specifications,
scope of work, timelines, requirements for a proper response, and any other applicable requirements of
the College.

Proposers should read the entire RFP before taking any action. It could be very misleading to review
only limited sections of the document.

1.2     PCC Introduction

PCC is a two-year college with several major campuses and a number of satellite locations offering
programs in a metropolitan area covering 1,500 square miles. It has an open admissions policy and
enrolls approximately 105,000 students annually, with a curriculum that includes career-technical
programs, community education, academic transfer courses, and classes in basic skills. Credits from
other institutions may be accepted toward degree requirements. PCC employs approximately 3,000
faculty, staff, and administrators.

PCC has grown substantially over the past decade. Distance education is increasing rapidly and
continued growth in enrollment is expected over the next five years.

PCC has an annual budget of over $100,000,000 from a variety of sources. The funding is derived
primarily from property tax support, state reimbursement, grants, contracts, and tuition. In November
2008, a $374 million bond measure was approved, giving the College funds for capital improvements to
take it through the next decade.

Although PCC addresses the needs of a well-defined district, it is increasing its relationship with those
who are beyond the metropolitan area. For example, PCC participates in electronic links among regional
libraries and has established joint admission and instructional programs with Oregon State University,
Portland State University, and the Oregon Institute of Technology. Approximately one million people



                                                      5
live in the greater Portland area.

A locally elected Board of Directors governs PCC. The Board of Directors appoints the District
President. There is one District President, two Vice Presidents, two Associate Vice Presidents, and four
Campus Presidents. A Campus President leads each of the College major campuses.

1.3      Sustainability:

In December 2006, the College Board of Directors approved the PCC Sustainable Use of Resources
Policy (Policy B-707). The Sustainable Use of Resources Policy states that “PCC is committed to
becoming a leader in academic programs and operational practices that model the sustainable use of
resources, so that the needs of current generations are met without impairing the ability of future
generations to meet their own needs.” To view more about the College’s commitment to sustainability
please see the following link:
http://ww.pcc.edu/about/sustainability/projects/documents/FY2008Annual2.pdf. The College would like
the proposing firm to consider our commitment to sustainability; and the energy consumption of their
proposed equipment or any other energy efficiency offered when submitting their proposal. 2008 Bond
building projects aspire to meet the silver LEED building certification.

1.4      Rock Creek Campus Information:

Rock Creek Campus is about 12 miles west of downtown Portland, in the rapidly growing Beaverton-
Hillsboro area of Washington County. Rock Creek is nestled amid farm and wetland, perfect for PCC’s
veterinary, landscape, building construction and biology programs, which use the natural areas for their
outdoor learning labs. It houses Tualatin Hills Parks and Recreation’s sports complex where students
have access to softball and lacrosse fields, tennis courts and soccer pitches. The campus is home to a
fully functioning farm with sheep, rabbits, llamas and cows.

Spacious, open malls highlight Rock Creek, which opened in 1976. Today, it features diesel service, auto
collision repair, building construction, veterinary and welding, among other programs. The campus has
been the epicenter of partnerships with green energy giant Solar World, biotechnology firm Genentech
(Roche) and Hillsboro Aviation, where student pilots have access to two FAA certified flight schools.
Rock Creek also is home to federal programs that serve primarily first-generation Latino college students
to develop leadership and educational opportunities. Its recycling initiative, where cafeteria scraps are
degraded via a worm compost to eventually nourish the burgeoning organic garden, is a model loop
system.

The seven main buildings are clustered around an outdoor quad, complete with benches and metal
sculptures. Parking is confined to two main areas on the campus perimeters. The design creates a liberal
arts college feel and makes the 256-acre campus distinctive in PCC’s system of more urban settings.
The abundant green spaces double as important learning tools. The farm helps veterinary technology
students study large animal medicine. The wetland and forests behind buildings and the aviation hanger
provide countless opportunities for biology students to observe plant and wildlife.

See campus website for additional information: http://www.pcc.edu/about/locations/rock-creek and
http://bond.pcc.edu/category/category-list/rock-creek.

1.5      CM/GC Approach:

The College finds that the Rock Creek Bond Program is well suited to the CM/GC contracting method,
because the Rock Creek Bond Program is complex and will require careful planning and coordination of
multiple projects in several buildings including a new building, a major addition, interior renovation
work, and infrastructure work affecting the entry, circulation and parking lots. The projects involve


                                                         6
 facilities that will be occupied and remain occupied for the duration of the program. Further, the
program is envisioned as a team effort between PCC, the Campus Architects, and the General
Contractor.

SECTION 2.      PROJECT INFORMATION:

2.1     Bond Program background:

In November 2008, PCC District voters approved a capital bond measure. This approval allows PCC to
engage in comprehensive planning, design, engineering and construction contracting over a multi-year
period of time. The bond initiatives will support College growth through new construction and facility
improvements to enhance educational capabilities throughout the district: Cascade Campus, Sylvania
Campus, Southeast Center, Rock Creek Campus and other PCC District centers. Refer to Bond website:
http://pcc.edu/bond for additional information and updates on Bond Projects.

2.2     Overview of the Rock Creek Bond Program:

The 2008 Bond Program includes plans for capital improvements, renovations, and selected maintenance
projects at the Rock Creek Campus.

Projects planned for the Rock Creek Campus include an addition to Building 7, a new academic
building, renovations to Buildings 2, 3 and 9, a second campus egress, and storm water and site
improvements.

The College has several critical needs related to the work going forward at the Rock Creek Campus:

Clean Water Services (CWS) is requiring a campus storm water master plan to be implemented for the
complete campus as part of the first phase of construction work on campus; this will require extensive
coordination of all site work to be done on campus;

Multiple projects are anticipated to take place at the same time, which will require a campus coordinated
plan by a contractor to ensure campus services are not impacted.

The new academic building, currently building 5, is dependent upon the building 7 addition completion
and the ability to use it as swing space to relocate the users out of building 5 for that construction to
begin. Once the new building 5 is complete, some of the users will move back into it and the building 7
addition will be completed for its final intended use; these are the two major projects on campus and
they require close coordination to ensure the projects are completed on schedule;

The service to students at Rock Creek Campus must, to the maximum extent possible, continue
unimpeded through the anticipated five-plus years of construction; public, student, and staff safety must
be protected in a complex, construction environment.

Opsis Architecture is currently under contract to complete the design and construction documents for
this work.

2.3     Scope of work:

PCC has need for a Construction Manager/General Contractor (CM/GC) firm to coordinate and manage
the construction process as a member of a team with the Owner, hired Architect and other project
consultants. The CM/GC firm is expected to be completely skilled in developing schedules, preparing
construction estimates, performing value engineering, analyzing alternative designs, studying labor
conditions, understanding construction methods and techniques, and coordinating and communicating
the activities of the Team throughout the design and construction phases to all members of the


                                                     7
 construction team. In addition, the CM/GC must be familiar with the total local labor and
subcontracting market particularly Minority Owned, Woman Owned, and Emerging Small Business
Enterprises (MWESB), and be capable of soliciting subcontracts without discrimination against race,
color, or national origin for consideration of any contract entered into pursuant to this project.

It is the goal of the College to provide opportunities for smaller general contractors for portions of the
construction projects on the Rock Creek campus. One of the primary considerations for selection of a
CMCG will be the demonstrated willingness and ability of the proposer to work creatively with the
College to identify projects and establish procedures to successfully engage smaller general contractors.

The project involves the expansion of the PCC Rock Creek Campus, as previously described herein.
The work involves a new building, and several sizeable renovations. The construction effort will have to
be carefully sequenced so that the campus on-going educational and administrative activities may
proceed without major interruption. As an example, a new building may have to be completed before
existing buildings can be renovated. Other renovations will have to be completed to allow the relocation
of existing PCC programs to the renovated facilities so that the necessary remodel of those buildings
may occur. Because of the sequencing necessity, the possibility exists that the project may have to occur
in several phases. Very close coordination between the Owner, hired Architect, and the contractor is
thus an absolute necessity.

The budget for the work is approximately $38,000,000, inclusive of the Construction Management Fee
and the Guaranteed Maximum Price (GMP). Removal and disposal of Regulated Building Material(s)
will be by Owner. The specific project schedule for construction is yet to be determined, but will be a
series of phased projects beginning in Spring 2012. The CM/GC shall provide the services according to
the terms and conditions identified in AIA document (Appendix B), standard form of agreement between
owner and Contractor.

2.4     Additional Requirements:

        1.      Non-Interference with School:

        The successful proposer’s use of the site shall be limited to the areas directed by the College.

        Existing driveways and entrances shall remain clear and available to College personnel,
        students, and the general public at all times. These areas shall not be used for parking or storage
        of materials.

        The successful proposer shall not encumber the site with materials or equipment. Successful
        proposer shall confine stockpiling of materials and location of storage sheds to the areas directed
        by the College. If additional storage is necessary, Successful proposer shall obtain and pay for
        such storage off-site at no additional cost to and College.

        2.      College Responsibilities:

        The College will provide, to the successful proposer, reasonable accessibility and timely
        response. The successful proposer must provide the location, email address, and phone/fax
        numbers of the main contact, responsible for managing the project.

        The owner representative for the College is Barbara Linn, Rock Creek Campus Bond Project
        Manager.




                                                      8
2.5   Proposal Procedures:

      2.5.1   Definitions:

      As used in this Request for Proposal, unless the context requires otherwise:

      Award of the Contract: The decision by the College that indicates which Proposer the College
      has chosen to enter into an agreement with.

      College: PCC, its board of directors, departments, employees, and agents.

      College Representative: PCC Bond Project Manager, or designee, acting as the administrator of
      the Contract and the primary College contact for the Contractor after the execution of the
      Contract.

      Contract: Once a Successful Proposer has been chosen, this is the agreement that PCC and the
      Successful Proposer will enter into, at which point the Successful Proposer will become the
      Contractor. That agreement will include the Provisions of this RFP and the Contract Provisions
      in similar form to those attached, and also any Appendices attached hereto, as well as the
      Provisions of the Proposal of the Successful Proposer, all of which will be incorporated therein
      in that Contract. That Contract will constitute the entire agreement between the parties. The
      Contract may also include any purchase orders, bonds, and addenda incorporated in the
      documents before their execution, and all other agreements of a supplemental nature, in writing,
      signed by both parties, entered into during the progress of the work.

      Contractor: The Contractor is the Successful Proposer that signs, executes, and enters into a
      Contract with PCC.

      Limited Liability Entity: Any corporation, limited liability company, limited liability
      partnership, or other business entity that must register with a state agency in order to do business
      as that entity.

      Notice of Intent to Award: A document proclaiming intent to award the Contract to a specified
      party

      OAR: Oregon Administrative Rules

      ORS: Oregon Revised Statutes.

      Owner: Portland Community College

      PCC Rules of Procurement: Rules of Procurement adopted February 24, 2005.

      Performance Bond: means a bond in form and with corporate surety satisfactory to the College
      in an amount equal to the full contract sum, conditioned upon the faithful performance of the
      contract and all provisions thereof.

      Proposal: A response to an RFP, created and submitted by a Proposer, which outlines the
      goods/services the Proposer wishes to create, manufacture, and/or deliver, or the services the
      Proposer wishes to render to PCC.




                                                    9
Proposer: Any corporation, limited liability company, limited liability partnership, other limited
liability entity, company, partnership, firm, sole proprietorship, or individual that creates and
submits a Proposal. A Proposer is a prospective Offeror / Contractor.

Provisions: Refers to all directions, terms, conditions, specifications, and requirements, etc., of
the referenced subject.

QRF: Qualified Rehabilitation Facility. This is a nonprofit organization that puts Oregonians
with disabilities to work. See www.oregonrehabilitation.org/qrf/ for more information.

Responsible Proposer: The proposer who meets the standards requirements and has not been
debarred or disqualified by the College.

Responsive Proposal: An offer that substantially complies in all material respects with
applicable solicitation requirements.

Request for Proposal (RFP): Used for contracts with an estimated cost of $150,000 and over.
This is an official publication/statement by PCC which outlines goods or services of which PCC
is in need. It outlines the general needs and goals of PCC, but the means and methods used to
achieve those ends will generally be left up to each Proposer to suggest in the Proposal.

Successful Proposer: The Proposer whose goods or services Proposal is accepted by PCC, and
upon acceptance, it is the Successful Proposer who is offered the Contract and who is obligated
to sign the Contract for such goods or services, thus becoming the Contractor.

2.5.2   Issuing Office:

This RFP document is issued by the Issuing Office of the College and that office shall be the
sole point of contact for this RFP. Please contact the following person:

        Contact Name: Avelina Gulmatico
        Bond Procurement Coordinator
        Capitol Park, Suite 260
        9700 SW Capitol Highway
        Portland, OR 97219
        Phone: 971-722-8416 Fax: 503-459-4701
        Email: agulmati@pcc.edu

2.5.3   Contact Information:

All communications related to this RFP should be made by mail or preferably by e-mail to RFP
contact Avelina Gulmatico, Bond Procurement Coordinator. The firms submitting the questions
will be responsible for their prompt delivery to the Bond Procurement Coordinator. Responses
to such questions will be made by a formal Addendum posted on the PCC Solicitation website.
PCC will not be responsible for any other explanation or interpretation of the proposed
documents.

Between the periods this RFP is published or issued and the time the contract is awarded and
approved, all request and questions regarding this RFP and the CM/GC process or the evaluation
process must be directed to Avelina Gulmatico, Bond Procurement Coordinator.




                                              10
2.5.4    Addenda:

 If it becomes necessary to modify, revise, or clarify any part of this RFP, addenda will be
provided to all Proposers who completed a vendor registration form.

         1.      PCC will not be responsible for any other explanation or interpretation of the
                proposed documents. The electronic copy of the RFP document on the PCC
                Solicitation website (http://www.pcc.edu/purchasing) and its addenda
                maintained by PCC shall be the master and controlling document.

         2      Any addenda posted on other Web sites are not official. Proposers should
                monitor the College Purchasing Solicitation Web site regularly until the RFP
                Submission Deadline to assure that they have not missed any addenda
                announcements.

         3.     Proposers shall acknowledge receipt of all addenda in the appropriate area of the
                Certification and Contract Offer Form (Appendix A), which must be returned as
                part of the Proposal requirements. All addenda issued during the RFP period
                are incorporated into the Contract resulting from this RFP by this reference.

2.5.5    Pre-proposal conference:

A mandatory pre-proposal conference will be held on October 25, 2011, starts at 11:00 A.M,
Rock Creek Campus, Bldg 2, Room 243. A sign-up sheet will be available. The College will
accept proposal from contractors represented at this meeting. Proposal received from contractors
who were not on the list of attendees will be rejected and returned.

This meeting is designed to clarify the information that is contained in this RFP and give an
opportunity for questions and answers. College department representatives and A/E hired
consultant will be at this meeting to give an overview of the project and answer questions. For
Campus map and driving direction, refer to: http://www.pcc.edu/about/locations/rock-creek

2.5.6    RFP Timetable:


 Event                                                         Deadline Dates

 Publication of the RFP                                        10/14/11

 Mandatory pre-proposal meeting and project site tour          11:00 A.M., 10/25/11

 Deadline for submitting written questions, requests,
 and/or protest to specifications, terms and conditions, and   10/26/11
 contract provisions of the RFP.

 Deadline to publish College response to written
 questions/requests/inquiries, issued as an addendum and       10/31/11
 posted on the purchasing website.

 Deadline for submitting proposal                              2:00 P.M., November 14, 2011




                                             11
 Proposal Evaluation/Review (tentative)                        November 14-18, 2011

 Optional, interviews of top proposers (tentative)             November 21 -22, 2011

 Board of Directors contract approval (tentative)              December 8, 2011


All written inquiries or protests of the RFP process must be received by the deadline as
indicated above. Clarifications and responses to written inquiries or protests regarding this RFP
will be sent within one week of receipt of written inquiries or protests.

All protests of the award of the contract must be received prior to the contract execution date.
This is also the date on which the successful proposer must sign, execute and enter into the
contract with the College.

The College may, at its discretion, schedule interviews with the Proposers, and will contact any
Proposers at that time.

2.5.7   Obtaining RFP Documents

RFP documents may be reviewed or obtained from the "Solicitation Opportunities" link on the
College issuing office Website: http://www.pcc.edu/purchasing. Interested Proposers who are
not equipped to download the document may request a copy of the RFP by contacting the
following:
        Contact's Name: Avelina Gulmatico
        Contact's Title:  Bond Procurement Coordinator
        Phone:            971-722-8416
        E-mail:          agulmati@pcc.edu

2.5.8   Submittal requirements:

All proposers must prepare their proposals according to the format outlined in this RFP and
provide a response to the requirements. It is the sole responsibility of the Proposer to ensure
that Proposals are received prior to the above stated Submission Deadline. PROPOSALS
MUST BE TIME STAMPED AT THE ISSUING OFFICE RECEPTION DESK ON OR
BEFORE THE STATED DEADLINE. The College will not consider late materials received
after the Submission Deadline and those materials will be returned unopened.

        1.      One (1) original, five (5) complete paper copies, and one (1) electronic .pdf
                version of the proposal shall be included in the proposal package. The sealed
                proposal must be received and stamped in the issuing office, within the specified
                deadline.

        2.      The Proposer's name and address must appear on the outside of the container.
                In addition, the words, "RFP for CM/GC for Rock Creek Campus" as the title
                must be clearly identified outside of the container.

        3.      Proposers should allow mail delivery time to make sure proposal is received by
                the issuing office, within the specified deadline.

        4.      Each Proposal shall be signed and sealed in an opaque envelope or box,
                addressed and delivered as follows:



                                             12
                 Hand Delivered or Certified U.S. Mail:

                 Avelina Gulmatico
                 Bond Procurement Coordinator
                 Capitol Park, Suite 260
                 9700 SW Capitol Highway
                 Portland, OR 97219

        5.       Proposals not arriving within the submission deadline will not be considered.
                 The College will not accept faxed Proposals.

        6.       Materials should be prepared simply, economically, and neatly. Special
                 bindings, colored displays, and other similar accoutrements are not desired.
                 Proposers are encouraged to be complete and concise.

        7.       This RFP document is not to be distributed or made available by the Proposer to
                 anyone outside their company. The RFP document is to be released only by the
                 Issuing Office, or the College cannot ensure delivery of addenda to all holders
                 of the document.

        8.       All proposals shall be typed and single-spaced, letter format, with font size no
                 smaller than 11 point. Proposal pages shall be numbered consecutively and
                 shall not exceed 30 pages.

                 Items that are not counted as part of the 30 page limit: certification and contract
                 offer, cover letter, staff resumes, certified letters from bonding/surety, and
                 additional supplemental information (project related). Supplemental
                 information may include photographs of past projects, charts, graphs, letters of
                 reference supporting your firm’s performance from past clients, and other
                 materials you consider beneficial.

2.5.9   Certification and Contract Offer:

 The Certification and Contract Offer (Appendix A) must be signed before any award of the
Contract will be made. A Proposal will not be considered for any Award of the Contract where
the Certification has been deleted or modified or not properly signed prior to the Date of Notice
of Intent to Award as specified above.

All Proposers who submit a Proposal must agree that the Provisions of this RFP and attached
copy of the Contract Provisions are acceptable and that, within ten (10) days after receipt of a
Notice of Intent to Award, any Proposer to whom a Contract is awarded will sign the Contract
including those Provisions. Any objections to such Provisions must be stated in writing and
received by the Issuing Office prior to the Deadline to Withdraw.

2.5.10 Erasures

Any and all erasures or corrections in the Proposal documents must each be initialed by the
Proposer.

2.5.11 Signature:

Any signature or initialing relating to this RFP certifies that the individual signing or initialing
has read and fully understands all provisions. Anything relating to this RFP shall be deemed to
have been properly signed or initialed if the procedures below are adhered to:


                                               13
1.      In the case of an individual Proposer, by each such individual Proposer.

2.      In the case of a partnership, the name of the partnership must appear directly above the
        initial or signature, and the initial or signature must be that of one of the authorized
        partner(s) of said partnership, signing for and in the name of the partnership. In
        addition, the names of all partners shall be stated in the document.

3.      In the case of a Limited Liability Entity, the entity’s name shall be subscribed to by the
        president or other authorized managing officer, and the name of the office held in (or the
        capacity in which they act for) such corporation shall be listed under the signature of
        such officer.

4.      All signatures must be in ink.

2.5.12 Withdraw a proposal:

A Proposal may be withdrawn in person with proper identification, or by issuing a written
request on company letterhead, signed by an authorized representative, and received by the
College prior to 2:00 P.M., November 15, 2011.

2.5.13 Proposal format:

The proposal shall be organized in the manner and presented in the same sequence as indicated
below. Any deviation from the format may result in the evaluation committee being unable to
locate specific information, which may result in a loss of points.

        1.      Cover letter:

        A letter introducing the company and including a statement that the proposer wishes to
        be considered for the project. Include full name of the firm or joint venture, contact
        person, email address, mailing address, telephone and fax numbers. If a joint venture,
        the relationship of the two parties shall be indicated in terms of percentage participation
        in the work and in the fee.

        2.      Certification and Contract Offer (Appendix A):

        Completed and signed by authorized person within the organization.

        3.      Response to Questions and/or Requirements on Section 4.

2.5.14 Wage Rates and Certificate of Payroll (if applicable):

The State of Oregon Prevailing Wage Rates for Public Works Contracts in Oregon shall be
followed for all labor performed in this Contract, including Wage Rates and Certification of
payroll as required by the Bureau of Labor and Industries (BOLI). For additional information,
see BOLI website: http://www.oregon.gov/BOLI/WHD/PWR/W_PWR_Pwrbk.shtml.

The hourly rate of wage to be paid by successful CM/GC or any sub-contractor to workers in
each trade or occupation required for the public works employed in the performance of this
Contract shall not be less than the specified minimum rate of wage in accordance with ORS
279C.838 and ORS 279C.840. The latest prevailing wage rates with an effective date of July1,
2011, refer to the BOLI website for additional information.




                                              14
SECTION 3:           PROPOSAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS

3.1   Codes, Ordinances, Regulations and Permits:

      a.     Successful proposer shall be licensed by the State of Oregon to do the work required
             under this Contract.

      b.     Successful proposer shall comply with all applicable requirements of County and State
             of Oregon Departments of Health, and Environmental Quality.

      c.     All items or services to be furnished hereunder shall meet all applicable State and
             Federal requirements of the Occupational Safety and Health Standard.

      d.     Successful proposer shall obtain and maintain in current status all applicable permits and
             licenses.

3.2   Liability for Damages:

      a.     The College shall not accept any liability or responsibility, in whole or in part, for any
             damage which may be sustained by any PCC machinery or equipment; or injury to any
             employee, agent, representative, assignee or guest of the successful proposer, regardless
             of cause.

      b.     The performance bond, properly executed has been delivered to and accepted by the
             College. The certified check or bid bond of each bidder who was not awarded a
             Contract will be returned immediately after the contract and bond of all successful
             bidders, properly executed, have been delivered to and accepted by the college.

      c.     Any proposer or proposers to whom a Contract is awarded and who shall default in
             executing said formal written Contract or in furnishing a satisfactory performance bond
             as stipulated above within the time and manner required by these specifications shall be
             liable to the College for whatever damages, including expenses and attorney fees
             incidental thereto, the College sustains as a result thereof, and also for whatever
             expenses and attorney fees may be incurred by the College in recovering same. The
             certified check or Bid Bond of any defaulting proposer or proposers shall be security for
             the payment of the aforesaid damages and expenses, including attorney fees, and the
             College shall have the right to apply any such certified check to payment thereof without
             action and to enforce any such bid bond by whatever means it deems appropriate.

3.3   Inquiries and RFP Requests for Clarifications:

      a.     This RFP and the Anticipated Contract Provisions attached as Appendices C and all
             subsequent written modifications and addenda issued by the designated contact for the
             College thereto are hereby designated as the sole reference and authority for the
             preparation of Proposals and take precedence over any other source, either verbal or
             written.

      b.     No College employee or officer is authorized to make any oral interpretation of any
             Provisions within the RFP or Contract documents. The College will not be responsible
             for any oral remarks related to this RFP. Prospective Proposers who are in doubt about
             or who have any objection to any aspect of this RFP, the Anticipated Contract
             Provisions and all subsequent written modifications and addenda must submit a written

                                                  15
             objection or request for clarification by the Inquiries Deadline listed in the RFP
             Timetable.

      c.     To be considered, prospective Proposer’s written RFP Request for Clarification must be
             submitted to the Issuing Office by the Inquiries Deadline in the RFP Timetable in an
             envelope marked as follows:

                             RFP Request for Clarification
                             RFP Title
                             Closing Date

      d.     All RFP Requests for Clarification must be in writing. RFP Requests for Clarification
             may be submitted via facsimile or email.

      e.     The College’s clarification to a prospective Proposer, whether orally or in writing, does
             not change the RFP and is not binding on the College unless the College amends the
             RFP by Addendum.

      f.     The College reserves the right to cancel the RFP in lieu of clarification under, and in
             conformance with, OAR 137-047-0660.

3.4   Public Information and Trade Secrets:

      a.     All Proposals and related materials shall be kept by the College for a period of six years
             and will be considered public information.

      b.     Proposers who have concerns about revealing trade secrets or other proprietary
             information within their Proposal must preface each page of sensitive material with the
             following text: “This data constitutes a trade secret under ORS 192.501(2) and shall not
             be disclosed outside the college or duplicated, used, or disclosed in whole or in part for
             any purpose other than to evaluate the described products/services or in accordance with
             Oregon Public Records Law, ORS Chapter 192. This restriction does not limit the
             College’s right to use information contained herein if it is obtained from another
             source.” All Proposers who respond to this RFP authorize the release of all information
             on any page that does not contain said above text.

      c.     Oregon Public Records law exempts only bona fide trade secrets from disclosure,
             “unless the public interest requires disclosure in the particular instance.” ORS
             192.501(2). Non-disclosure of documents submitted with a Proposal and marked as a
             trade secret may depend on official or judicial determinations made pursuant to Oregon
             Public Records Law.

      d.     Cost or price information does not constitute trade secrets and must be open to public
             inspection.

3.5   RFP Protests

      a.     A prospective Proposer may protest the procurement process or the solicitation
             document (“RFP Protest”) for a contract solicited under ORS 279B.055, 279B.060, and
             279B.085 in accordance with this Section 2.7. Before seeking judicial review, a
             Proposer must file a written protest with the College and exhaust all administrative
             remedies.




                                                  16
         b.     RFP Protest Submission Requirements. To be considered, prospective Proposer’s
                written RFP Protest must be submitted to the Issuing Office in an envelope marked as
                follows:

                        RFP Title
                        RFP Closing Date

        c.      All RFP Protests must be in writing. RFP Protests may be submitted via facsimile.

        d.      Time Limitation on Protest. An RFP Protest shall be presented to the College at least
                ten (10) calendar days prior to proposal closing. The College will not consider a protest
                submitted after the time period established in this Section 2.

        e.      Right to Protest RFP. The College will consider a RFP Protest filed in compliance with
                the requirement of this Section 2, if it: 1) states the grounds that demonstrate how the
                process is contrary to law, or how the solicitation document is unnecessarily restrictive,
                is legally flawed or improperly specifies a brand name; 2) provides evidence or
                supporting documentation that supports the grounds on which the protest is based; and
                3) states the relief sought by prospective Proposer.

        f.      College’s Response to RFP Protest. The College will issue a written disposition of the
                RFP protest no less than 3 business days before proposals are due, unless a written
                determination by the College determines that circumstances exist that require a shorter
                time limit. If the College upholds the protest, in whole or in part, the College may in its
                sole discretion either issue an Addendum reflecting its disposition under OAR 137-047-
                0430 or may cancel the RFP in the public interest under and in conformance with, OAR
                137-047-0660.

        g.      Extension of Closing. The College may extend Closing if it determines an extension is
                necessary to consider and respond to a properly filed Protest under this Section 2.7.

3.6     Contact Information:

 The Contract administrator will be Avelina Gulmatico, Bond Procurement, 971-722-8416. Contract
administration will be responsible for monitoring of all terms of the contract. This includes record
management, obtaining certificates of insurance and bond documents, contract execution, and executing
extensions, renewals, amendments and cancellations.

3.7     Sufficiency:

All requested and required information must be provided. Proposal(s) which do not have all required
information may be rejected.

3.8     Rejection of Proposals:

 The College reserves the right to cancel the procurement or to reject any and all Proposals if it is
determined to be in the interest of the College to do so. The information obtained will be used to help
determine the suitability of the proposed products and services. The College reserves the right to waive
any informality or irregularities should such action serve the interest of the College.

Non-acceptance of any Proposal will not imply any criticism of the Proposal or convey any indication
that the Proposal or proposed products or services were deficient. Non-acceptance of any Proposal may
mean that another Proposal was deemed to be more advantageous to the College or that no Proposal was
deemed acceptable.


                                                     17
Proposals will be evaluated and, unless all Proposals are rejected, an Award of the Contract will be made
based upon the evaluation process outlined within this RFP. The evaluation may result in the Award of
the Contract being made other than to the lowest priced Proposal.

3.9     Contract Renewal:

If the College elects to renew the Contract, it shall provide written notice of such intent to the
Contractor a minimum of thirty (30) days’ prior to the expiration of the current Contract.

3.10    Independent Contractor/Partnerships:

Nothing in this RFP shall be construed to create a partnership, joint venture or employment relationship
between the parties. Contractor will not be, nor hold itself out to be, an officer, employee, agent of the
College and will not make any such representations to third parties. Contractor acknowledges that
Contractor’s employees have no right to participate in College’s employee benefit plans. Contractor
further acknowledges that College is not responsible for the tax or other withholding of Contractor’s
employees.

3.11    Licenses:

Contractor or Subcontractor shall demonstrate possession of any license necessary for performance of
the work described under this RFP.

If not licensed to do business in the State of Oregon, the Successful Proposer will register as a foreign
corporation with the State of Oregon Department of Commerce prior to the Award of the Contract.

3.12    Minority, Women-owned, and Emerging Small Business (MWESB):

        a.       It is the policy of the College to achieve race and gender equity and to foster small
                 business opportunity in the award and implementation of contracts and subcontracts.
                 The goal is to build a diverse and prosperous group of community contractors and
                 trained employees who can effectively compete in business, while obtaining quality
                 goods and services in a competitive, efficient, and non-discriminatory manner.

        b.       Proposer will certify in its offer that Proposer has not and will not discriminate against a
                 subcontractor in awarding a subcontract because the subcontractor is a minority, women,
                 or emerging small business enterprise certified under ORS 200.055.

        c.       The College aspiration goal for Good Faith Effort MWESB utilization on this project is
                 twenty percent (20%). See link to Good Faith Effort on the Purchasing Solicitation site,
                 click on MWESB, for detail information.

        d.       The Workforce Training and Hiring apprenticeship utilization goal on this project is
                 twenty percent (20%). See link to Workforce Training and Hiring on Purchasing
                 Solicitation site, click on MWESB, for detail information.

3.13    Immigration Reform and Control Act:

All Proposers shall comply with the provisions of the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986
regarding the verification of employment eligibility.




                                                       18
3.14    Cost of Proposal:

The College will not be responsible for any costs associated with the development or submission of
Proposals.

3.15    Taxes:

College is tax exempt. All taxes will be the responsibility of Proposer.

3.16    Payment:

Unless otherwise provided in the terms and conditions of this RFP or of the Anticipated Contract
provisions, payment will be made 30 days after receipt of invoice and acceptance of goods and/or
services provided under this RFP.

The College agrees to accept and promptly pay billings submitted by the Contractor for the completion
and acceptance of said services by the College’s representative.

3.17    Contract:

        1.       The contents of the Proposal of the Successful Proposer, along with this RFP and
                 Contract Provisions (similar in form to those attached) and any clarifications and
                 addenda issued by the College, will become contractual obligations if the College
                 accepts a Proposer’s offer. The order of precedence for the Contract documents shall
                 be the Contract, this RFP, its attachments and any addenda, and the Proposal of the
                 successful Proposer, unless otherwise indicated in the Contract.

        2.       If a Proposer has objections to the RFP documents, terms or conditions, or Anticipated
                 Contract terms or conditions, but fails to follow the RFP Protest procedure described
                 above, the only options available to the Proposer are to either accept all obligations, or
                 to withdraw by the Deadline to withdraw as indicated in the RFP Timetable.

        3.       A Proposer that fails to object by the inquiries Deadline and to withdraw its Proposal
                 by the Deadline to Withdraw will be deemed to agree that, if chosen as the Successful
                 Proposer, it will accept said obligations in a contract, purchase agreement, purchase
                 order, delivery order, or similar acquisition. Failure to do so may result in cancellation
                 of the Award of the Contract, and may, at the sole discretion of the College, result in
                 liability to the Proposer for whatever damages the College sustains as a result thereof.

        4.       The Proposal Bond (or certified/cashier check) of any defaulting Proposer shall be
                 security for the payment of the aforesaid damages and the College shall have the right
                 to enforce any such Proposal Bond by whatever means it deems appropriate and to
                 apply any such certified/cashier check to payment thereof, without the need for further
                 action on the part of the College.

        5.       The formation of the Contract shall not be complete and the College shall not be liable
                 under it until it has been executed both by the Successful Proposer and by the College,
                 and a properly executed Performance Bond, if required, has been delivered to and
                 accepted by the College.

        6.       The CM/GC agreement between owner and contractor will be the contractual basis for
                 this project.



                                                      19
3.18    Financial Interest, Fraud, and Collusion:

A Proposer filing a Proposal thereby certifies that, with regard to this RFP, no officer, agent or employee
of the College who has a pecuniary interest in this RFP or Proposal has participated in the Contract
negotiations on the part of the College, and that the Proposal is made in good faith without fraud,
collusion, or connection of any kind with any other Proposer to this RFP. Further, the Proposer certifies
that with regard to this RFP, the Proposer is competing solely on the Proposer’s own behalf without
connection with, or obligation to, any undisclosed individual, partnership, company, or Limited Liability
Entity.

3.19    Sub-Contractors:

        a.      The successful CM/GC will be required to competitively bid all sub-contracts over
                $150,000 and obtain a minimum of three (3) quotes for sub-contracts over $5,000 and
                up to $149,999. The College has the right to waive this requirement in writing when it
                is determined in the best interest of the College to do so. If the CM/GC elects to
                compete to for a portion of the work, a College representative must be present at the bid
                opening meeting. The CM/GC may not exceed the proportion of self-completed work
                that is established at the determination of the GMP.

        b.      The successful CM/GC shall work proactively with the College to identify opportunities
                for smaller general contractors to be engaged in portions of the construction work at the
                Rock Creek campus, and will develop appropriate solicitation and contract procedures to
                succeed in the established objectives.

        c.      The successful CM/GC shall bind every sub-firm to all terms and conditions anywhere
                contained in the contract documents as far as applicable to the work of such sub-firm so
                that the sub-firm assumes toward the firm and toward the work all the obligations and
                responsibilities that the firm assumes toward the College as to the performance of the
                sub-firm’s portion of the work.

        d.      Nothing contained in the contract documents shall be construed to create any contract
                between the College and any sub-firms.

        e.      Subcontracts must be let pursuant to applicable Oregon statutes and administrative rules.

        f.      The College reserves the right to select specific Divisions of work to bid exclusively
                through the Small Business Program via the State certified MWESB program.

3.20    Duration of Offer:

Proposal prices and provisions shall remain firm for ninety (90) calendar days after the Submission
Deadline indicated above. The Successful Proposer shall not alter the terms or price of their Proposal if
said Proposal is accepted within ninety (90) days of the Submission Deadline indicated above. Price
increases or changes in terms by others after the acceptance will not be considered. An Award of the
Contract to any Proposer shall not constitute a rejection of any other Proposal and the College will
remain free to accept other Proposals.

3.21    Risk of Loss and Damage:

The Proposer will be liable for all damages arising out of the Proposer’s negligence or fault in
connection with this RFP. The College will not be responsible for the loss or damage of any items
during the RFP process, unless negligence on the part of the College has been established in a court of
law.


                                                      20
3.22    Publicity:

 News releases by any proposer pertaining to this RFP or any award of the contract or other issue
resulting from or related to it will be made only with prior written approval from the Issuing Office and
Public Affairs Department of the College.

3.23    Reservations:

The College expressly reserves the following rights:

        a.      To reject all Proposals.

        b.      To reject any Proposal not in compliance with all prescribed public bidding procedures
                and requirements.

        c.      To reject any Proposal not meeting any Provisions set forth herein.

        d.      To waive any or all irregularities in Proposals submitted.

        e.      To award any or all items or services contained in the Proposal.

        f.      To award to more than one Proposer

        g.      To consider the competency and responsibility of Proposers in making any Award of the
                Contract.

        h.      To re-award the Contract to another Proposer in the event any Proposer who is chosen
                by the College as the Successful Proposer defaults in executing said formal Contract
                within the time and in the manner specified in the RFP documents.

         i.     To obtain clarification of any point in a Proposer’s Proposal. The failure of a Proposer to
                make additional information available could result in the rejection of the Proposal. In
                addition, Proposers must be prepared to make presentations about their products and/or
                services at the College.

        j.      To obtain Proposals from other Proposers for specific jobs.

3.24    Ownership of Proposal Documents:

 All Proposals developed specifically for the College shall be the property of the College and all title and
interest therein shall vest to the College. All Proposers, at their own expense, may and should retain a
copy of their Proposal.

3.25    Sufficient Information

1.      All Proposers represent and warrant that by responding to this RFP they have been sufficiently
        informed in all matters relating to the performance of duties required by this RFP and its
        attachments- Prior to submitting a Proposal, all Proposers shall make a careful examination of
        the RFP Provisions, including but not limited to terms and conditions, including any
        specifications. Failure to take these precautions will not release the Successful Proposer from
        performing the work in strict accordance with the terms of the Contract.

2.      Proposers are welcome and encouraged to make visits during the normal operating hours of the
        various facilities of the College. Prior arrangements may be made with person listed as the


                                                       21
        Contact on the front page of the RFP.

3.      The College will not be responsible for any loss or for any unanticipated costs that may be
        suffered by the Successful Proposer as a result of the Proposer’s failure to fully inform
        themselves in advance in regard to all conditions pertaining to the duties required. No statement
        made by any officer, agent, or employee of the College will be binding on the College.

4.      Additionally, Proposers warrant that they have checked their Proposal for errors and omissions
        and that the prices stated in the Proposal are correct and as intended and are a complete and
        correct statement of prices for performing the duties specified herein.

3.26    Separate Contracts:

The College reserves the right to enter into other contracts in connection with this RFP. The Contractor
shall afford those other contractors’ reasonable opportunity for the introduction and execution of their
work, and shall properly coordinate all work efforts.

3.27    Headings:

The Headings in this RFP and all attached documents are for convenience only and do not establish any
other meaning or interpretation.

3.28    Prevailing Opinion:

If any doubt or difference of opinion arises between the College and the Contractor as to the
interpretation of this RFP, the decision of the College will be final and binding upon all parties.


SECTION 4       PROPOSAL EVALUATION AND AWARD PROCESS

Proposals will be evaluated for completeness and compliance with this RFP. Proposals considered
complete will be evaluated to determine if they comply with the requirements of the RFP. If the
Proposal is unclear, proposer may be asked to provide written clarification.

4.1     Evaluation Criteria:

The following criteria will be used in ranking of each proposal. Proposal that is ranked the highest will
represent the best overall value for PCC. The criteria are not listed in any priority order. The Selection
Committee will consider all criteria in performing a comprehensive evaluation of each proposal.
Weights have been assigned to each criterion in the form of points.

        4.1.1   Firm Background: (Maximum points 15)

                         Describe your firm’s history and capabilities. Include information
                         identifying annual volume, financial/bonding capabilities, and stability in
                         the marketplace.

                         Provide information identifying the firm’s strengths and special
                         capabilities.

                         Include a company-wide organizational chart.




                                                       22
4.1.2 Experience of Key Personnel (Maximum points 15)

                Provide a construction organizational chart that identifies key personnel and
                positions that would be assigned to this project.

                Provide resumes for these key people. Indicate the firm’s willingness to include
                a “key personnel” clause in the Contract for those personnel.

4.1.3   Firm Experience and Success (Maximum points 15)

         Describe your firm’s experience with projects of similar size, type, complexity, and
        schedule limitations. Identify project(s) you feel to be close to this in terms of schedule,
        budget, and conditions.

4.1.4   Experience with CM/GC and GMP Work                 (Maximum points 15)

                Describe your firm’s experience with Construction Management/General
                Contractor (CM/GC) work.

                Describe your firm’s experience for the award and performance of GMP
                construction contracts based on the CM/GC process.

4.1.5   Firm Experience in Partnering (Maximum points 10)

              Give examples of your firm’s ability to lead and create an atmosphere of
              Partnering in an interactive process.

              Describe your firm’s expectations for the role of the Owner and Architect.

              Describe how your firm will interact with the Owner and Architect.

              Describe your firm’s experience with mentoring smaller general contractors.

4.1.6   Firm Workload       (Maximum points 10)

        Provide the status of current work within the firm, in time and magnitude.

4.1.7   Job Understanding        (Maximum points 10)

        Describe your understanding of the project and the role your firm is requested to
        perform. Specifically address the College’s intention to provide opportunities for
        smaller general contractors.

4.1.8   Administration of Work, Project Scheduling and Coordination (Max points 15)

              How would you approach the administration of this series of projects

              Describe your expertise in project scheduling and coordination. Describe what
              software or other tools you utilize in controlling schedules and the sequencing of
              the work for projects with tight time constraints and little flexibility. Give
              examples of your success with similar projects?

              Describe how costs will be controlled and savings optimized.



                                              23
                     Discuss your firm’s change order history for non-CM/GC work as a percentage of
                     the total project cost.

      4.1.9     Value Engineering (Maximum points 10)
               Describe your firm’s methodology and experience with Value Engineering (VE).
               Identify any particular successful experiences and/or unique services in this area.

      4.1.10 Management Fee Percentage           (Maximum points 20)

                     Provide your firm’s anticipated Construction Management Fee as a percentage of
                     the Work for this project.

                     Describe what is included in your management fee?

                     Describe, in specific detail, those project cost elements your firm considers
                     outside of this Fee.

                     This project will include scopes of work for major subcontracts that are mainly
                     independent from GC coordination. Please discuss how your firm might approach
                     fees and/or GMP’s under these circumstances.

      4.1.11   Social Responsibility      (Maximum points 15)

                     PCC is dedicated to encouraging and awarding contracts to Minority-owned,
                     Women-owned, and Emerging Small Business Enterprises (MWESB) and also for
                     Minority and Women workforce development. Provide your strategy on how you
                     plan to address and incorporate MWESB participation and Minority and Women
                     workforce development on this project.

                     Provide the following information regarding your firm, at least, five (5) most
                     recent projects. Portland Community College reserves the right to investigate
                     references including customers other than those listed in proposer’s submission.

                       Project name
                       Project owner
                       Project dollar amount.
                       Percentage of M/W/ESB firms utilized.
                       Percentage of total M/W/ESB dollar amount.

                     Describe the actions and strategies your firm will take regarding Sustainability.

                      Describe the actions and strategies your firm will take regarding community
                     service.

4.2   References

      Include a list of 3 owners who can provide information in support of your team for this project.
      List the organization, current address, and current contact and phone number for an individual
      who can take calls and who had direct contact with the referenced project. These references
      shall be current or recent (not more than five years old) projects with similar size and scope to
      what is requested in this RFP.




                                                    24
      No score will be determined for your references but they may be contacted during the selection
      process and information provided will be considered. References to be attached with proposal
      and titled “Firm References”.

      PCC reserves the right to investigate references including customers other than those listed in
      proposer’s submission. Investigation may include past performance of any proposer with respect
      to its successful performance of similar projects, compliance with specifications and contractual
      obligations, its completion or delivery of a project on schedule, and its lawful payment of
      employees and workers. Supportive references are required.

4.3   Evaluation and award process

      4.3.1   Selection/Award Process

              1.      Evaluation Committee. A committee consisting of College staff will evaluate
                      the Proposals. Each member will evaluate all aspects of a proposed approach
                      via a scoring system designed to be of internal assistance to the members of the
                      evaluation team. Each Proposal will be scored based on the criteria and points
                      listed herein. A possible 150 points may be accumulated.

              2.      Initial Scoring. Each of the evaluators shall independently assign a score to
                      each of the written Proposals. Criteria scores will then be summed. The highest
                      scoring Proposals will be identified and those Proposers may be invited to an
                      oral evaluation with the evaluation committee. Proposers eliminated from
                      consideration at this level of evaluation will be notified and may protest
                      elimination in accordance with Item 4.5.

              3.      Oral Evaluation. If it is determined to be in the best interest of the College, an
                      oral evaluation will be scheduled. If a Proposer is unable to participate in an
                      oral evaluation, the College reserves the right to remove that Proposer from
                      consideration. The selected proposers will be given set of interview questions to
                      prepare for their oral interview presentation. A possible 100 points may be
                      accumulated during the interview process.

              4.      Final Scoring. The oral interview will also be scored and evaluated. After the
                      oral interview, the committee will tally the oral scores. The award
                      recommendation will be given to proposer(s) with highest oral scores.

      4.3.2   The Contract will be awarded to the highest ranking Proposer under the foregoing
              criteria.

4.4   Notice of Intent to Award:

      4.4.1   The College will provide written notice of its Intent to Award to all Proposers at least
              seven (7) days before the Award of a Contract. The College's Award will not be final
              until the later of either: 1) the expiration of the Award Protest period provided for in
              Section 4.5 of this RFP; or 2) the College provides written decisions to all timely-filed
              protests denying the protests and affirming the Award.

      4.4.2   The apparent Successful Proposer will be notified in writing of its apparent winning
              proposal, and a contract will be drawn that will include reference to this RFP, its
              attachments and addenda, the Proposer's proposal, and any additional contract language
              that may be required by College or by law. All other Proposers will be notified that the
              apparent winning proposal has been selected.


                                                   25
4.5   Award Protest

      4.5.1    An adversely affected Proposer may protest the Notice of Intent to Award the Contract
               for any and all contracts solicited under ORS 279B.055, 279B.060, and 279B.085 if the
               Proposer can demonstrate that it would be eligible to be awarded the public contract in
               the event the protest were successful. Before seeking judicial review of an Award of the
               Contract, an adversely affected Proposer must file a written protest with the College and
               exhaust all administrative remedies.

      4.5.2.   Right to Protest Award: In order to be an adversely affected Proposer with a right to
               submit a written protest, a Proposer must itself claim to be eligible for Award of the
               Contract in the event the Protest were successful and must be next in line for the Award.
               In addition, the adversely affected Proposer must demonstrate that the reason for the
               Protest is that : (a) all higher-ranked Proposers are ineligible for Award of the Contract
               because their Proposals were non-responsive; or (b) the College has failed to conduct the
               evaluation of proposals in accordance with the criteria or processes described in this
               RFP; (c) the College has abused its discretion in rejecting the Protesting Proposer's
               proposal as nonresponsive; or (d) the College's evaluation of the proposals or its
               subsequent determination of award it otherwise in violation of ORS Chapter 279A or
               279B. In addition, the written protest shall specify the grounds upon which the protest is
               based and suggested changes that may remedy the defects.

      4.5.3    Award Protest Submission Requirements. To be considered, Proposer's written Award
               Protest must be submitted to the Issuing office in an envelope marked as follows:

               RFP Award Protest
               RFP Title
               Notice of Intent to Award Date

               All Award Protests must be in writing. Award Protests may be submitted via facsimile.

      4.5.4    Time Limitation on Protest: To be considered by the College, a written protest must be
               received by the College within seven (7) days after issuance of the Notice of Intent to
               Award Contract.

      4.5.5.   Authority to Resolve Protests: The President of the College, or such person's designee,
               shall have the authority to settle or resolve a written protest submitted in accordance
               with the requirements of this Section 4.5.

      4.5.6    Decision: If the protest is not settled or resolved by mutual agreement, the President of
               the College, or such person's designee, shall issue a written decision on the protest in a
               timely manner.

      4.5.7    After the College has issued its response, Proposer may seek judicial review in the
               manner provided in ORS 279B.415.

      4.5.8    The College reserves the right to cancel the RFP in conformance with OAR 137-047-
               0060.




                                                    26
                                     APPENDIX A
                        Certifications and Contract Offer
                                        For
                     Construction Manager/General Contractor
                             for Rock Creek Campus

PROPOSAL PRICING:
      The Undersigned hereby proposes to furnish to Portland Community College (the "College") all
     materials, services, and labor necessary to perform all work for PCC in strict accordance with
     the terms, conditions, and requirements as specified in the RFP for CM/GC for Rock Creek
     Campus.
        Undersigned agrees to honor this proposal for ninety (90) days from date of signature below.
ADDENDA:
     Addenda ___ through ____ received. (proposer will be required to provide total # of addenda
      received).

BID/PROPOSAL BOND:
      XRequired      Not Required

PERFORMANCE BOND/PAYMENT BOND
      X Required      Not Required
     The undersigned agrees, if awarded a Contract, to execute and deliver to the College, within
     ten (10) days after the receipt of Notice of Intent to Award the Contract, a satisfactory
     performance and payment bond in an amount equal to one hundred percent (100%) of the Contract
     Amount. In addition, Certificates of Insurance for the coverage specified in the Proposal
     Document must be submitted at the same time.

CONTRACT EXECUTION
    X Required Not Required
     The undersigned agrees that the proposal security accompanying this Proposal is left in escrow
     with the Owner, that the amount thereof is the measure of liquidated damages which the Owner
     will sustain as a result of the failure of the undersigned to execute and deliver the above-named
     Contract and performance and payment bond; and that if the undersigned defaults in either
     executing the Contract or providing a performance and payment bond within ten (10) days after
     forms are provided to him/her, then the proposal security may become the property of the Owner
     at the Owner's option; but if this proposal is not accepted within forty-five (45) days of the
     submission date, or if the undersigned executes and timely delivers said




                                                    27
PREVAILING WAGES

     X Required      Not Required
    The undersigned agrees, pursuant to ORS 279.350, that workers in each trade or occupation
    employed in the performance of any Contract awarded hereunder either by the Prime Contractor or
    any subcontractor, or any other person doing or contracting to do the whole or any part of the
    work, shall be paid not less than the minimum hourly wage rate set forth in the document entitled
    "Prevailing Wage Rates for Public Works Contracts in Oregon," effective July 1,2011, as issued
    by the State of Oregon, Bureau of Labor and Industries.

MINORITY AND WOMEN-OWNED SUBCONTRACTOR PARTICIPATION
    X Required Not Required
    The undersigned agrees that if he/she is selected to perform the Work, he/she shall, by the close of
    the next working day following such notification, submit to the College a listing of names of
    minority-owned and women-owned subcontractors who will be used and the nature and dollar
    amounts of their participation.

    Proposer certifies that it will not discriminate against a subcontractor in awarding a subcontract
    because the subcontractor is a minority, women, or emerging small business enterprise.

CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTORS BOARD REGISTRATION
    X Required      Not Required
    Proposers must be registered with the Construction Contractors Board or licensed by the State
    Landscape Contractors Board prior to submitting proposals for emergency work, minor alterations,
    ordinary repair, or maintenance projects.
    Construction Contractors Board Number _______Expiration Date _______

STATE OF OREGON OFFICE OF MINORITY, WOMEN & EMERGING SMALL BUSINESS
(OMWESB) CERTIFICATION
      If your firm is currently certified by OMWESB in any of these categories, please indicate that
      certification:

         Minority Business Enterprise (MBE)
         Women Business Enterprise (WBE)
         Emerging Small Business (ESB)


FIRST-TIER SUBCONTRACTOR DISCLOSURE

         Required        Not Required

      Within the two (2) working hours after the date and time of the deadline when the proposals are
      due, for public improvement contract, proposers must submit first-tier subcontractors. The
      disclosure of first-tier subcontractors must include the name of each subcontractor, the category
      of work that each subcontractor will perform and the dollar value of each subcontract. See
      Appendix E for the form




                                                    28
  PROPOSER'S SIGNATURE AND IDENTIFICATION:

        I hereby certify that this Proposal is genuine and that I have not entered into collusion with
        any other vendor(s) or any other person(s).

        Please print or type all information requested below (except where signature is required)
        and attach Proposal Security (if required) to this form:



Name of Proprietor, Partnership, or Corporation    Signature of Proprietor, Partner, or Corporate
                                                   Officer:
                                                   Signature
Name:


                                                   Name of Signatory
Street Address:


                                                   Date Signed
Mailing Address:


                                                    Employer ID Number
City, State, and Zip Code


Phone Number:




                                                    29
               APPENDIX B

Standard Form of Agreement between Owner and
Construction Manager & General Conditions of the
             Contract of Construction




                        30
