 RFP Best Practices for Subscriber Units Procurement Toolkit




Request for Proposal (RFP) and
 Request for Information (RFI)
   Development Timeline for
   Land Mobile Radio (LMR)
 Subscriber Units Procurement

Joint SAFECOM and National Council of Statewide
     Interoperability Coordinators (NCSWIC)
           Technology Policy Committee


                     February 2019
Introduction
Overseeing and writing a Request for Proposal (RFP) or Request for Information (RFI) can be complex and
challenging, especially for those unfamiliar with the RFP/RFI process or with Land Mobile Radio (LMR)
subscriber units. This document clarifies the process by identifying and explaining essential RFP and RFI
phases for public safety agencies and entities looking to procure LMR subscriber units. Using feedback
gathered from public safety officials within SAFECOM and the National Council of Statewide
Interoperability Coordinators (NCSWIC), this document outlines elements of a typical RFP and/or RFI and
captures important factors, constraints, and decisions that impact the RFP development process.

While this document presents a general overview of the RFP and RFI process, it does not replace existing
RFP policies or statutes, nor does it attempt to solve all issues associated with RFP development. Agencies
and entities at the state, local, tribal, territorial, or regional levels should use this resource alongside
governing procurement policies and other available resources.




Terms and Definitions

     Terms                         Definition

     Procurement                   The business process of obtaining new capabilities, such as
                                   purchasing new equipment
     Proposal                      A written offer or bid produced by the manufacturer/vendor in
                                   response to a RFP; the proposal includes pricing information and
                                   requirements details
     Requirements                  Technical preferences, standards, or mandatory requirements
     Subscriber Units              LMR end-user devices, including portable and mobile radios
     Vendors / Manufacturers       The companies that engineer, produce, and/or sell equipment to
                                   public safety communications users
     Request for Proposal          Document that outlines the capabilities, services, or technologies a
                                   government agency or entity is seeking to procure
     Request for Information       Document that solicits information from vendors/manufacturers
                                   regarding existing or developing technologies or capabilities


                                                RFP and RFI Development Timeline for LMR Subscriber Units Procurement   |1
Document Overview

 Section                Description                              Content

 RFP Development        Overview of the RFP development          - RFP process overview
 Overview               process and key considerations prior     - Determining the need for an RFI
                        to RFP development                       - General considerations
 RFP Development        More detailed walkthrough of RFP         - RFP timeline graphic
 Timeline               phases and considerations for RFP        - RFP phases and key milestones
                        process steps and decision               - Considerations for each phase and
                        milestones                                 milestone
 RFI Development        Walkthrough of the RFI process           - RFI timeline graphic
 Timeline (Optional)    steps and decision points                - RFI development and release
                                                                   recommendations
                                                                 - RFI timeline considerations



RFP Best Practices Toolkit
This document is the third part of the SAFECOM-NCSWIC Joint Technology Policy Committee’s RFP Best
Practices for LMR Subscriber Units Procurement Toolkit, which was developed to assist users in procuring
subscriber units. For more information on subscriber units and RFP best practices, other documents in the
toolkit can be found at: https://www.dhs.gov/technology


                       RFP Best Practices for LMR Subscriber Units Toolkit


       RFP Best Practices for LMR Subscriber    Describes subscriber units RFP best practices,
       Units Procurement ("Do’s and Don’ts")    including lists of "Do's" and "Don’ts"


       RFP and RFI Development Timeline for     Outlines the timeline and significant steps in the
       LMR Subscriber Units Procurement         process of developing an RFP or RFI




                                           RFP and RFI Development Timeline for LMR Subscriber Units Procurement   |2
      RFI and RFP Roles and Responsibilities      Describes the various roles within RFP and RFI
      for LMR Subscriber Units Procurement        development, along with associated responsibilities


      RFP and RFI Sample Language and             Provides sample content structure and language,
      Resources for LMR Subscriber Units          along with a list of general user resources, for
      Procurement                                 developing subscriber unit RFPs and RFIs




RFP Development Overview
This section explores all phases of RFP development, beginning with the first conversations about
the need for new subscriber units and ending with equipment implementation. Overall, the
complete RFP process should be expected to take anywhere between 9 months to 3 years to
complete. Budget cycles, grants, and other factors will likely impact the length of time to develop
and release an RFP, as well as collect and evaluate responses and award a contract.




                    Figure 1 - RFP HIGH-LEVEL TIMELINE STAGES AND DECISION POINT MILESTONES




                                             RFP and RFI Development Timeline for LMR Subscriber Units Procurement   |3
Procurement Phases
Figure 1 shows the phases of RFP development. Each phase involves distinct activities (see Figure
2) that prepare the RFP developers for the Decision Point Milestones. Although each phase can
be broken into smaller decision points, for the sake of adaptability and simplicity, the phases are
intentionally presented broadly. Additionally, the RFI — though a phase in itself — is treated
separately, given it is not a required step for all subscriber unit procurements (see Figure 3). Also,
agencies and entities should note that governing procurement policies may place priority on
certain phases of development which alter the sequence of the timeline.



Determining Need for an RFI
The Planning and Development phase may include developing and releasing an RFI. While it may be
recommended to issue an RFI, this is an optional step that is not needed in all situations.


 What is a Request for Information (RFI)?

 •       A segment of the standard procurement process whose purpose is to collect written information
         about the capabilities of various manufacturers – a “see what’s out there” approach to
         understanding available technologies and associated costs
 •       A document outlining what an agency or entity wants to accomplish/the technical needs to be met
         by acquiring new capabilities or equipment, and requests information from vendors concerning
         those needs
 •       A tool used during a solicitation to identify a base of potential vendors
 •       An opportunity to ask vendors questions about capabilities prior to RFP release, proposal review,
         and contract award/negotiation


When approaching the need to procure new equipment, agencies and entities sometimes have various
challenges or questions that an RFI could fitfully address. Some of these include, but are not limited to,
the following:
     •    The agency or entity lacks knowledge or awareness of existing or developing technologies,
          capabilities, or services, and how those capabilities will meet the agency's or entity's needs
     •    The range of potentials vendors is unknown

                                                RFP and RFI Development Timeline for LMR Subscriber Units Procurement   |4
   •   The agency or entity is unable to accurately estimate the costs of replacing, updating, or
       purchasing additional subscriber units
   •   The operability or interoperability of various subscriber units is a concern to the agency or entity,
       and the agency or entity desires to understand how different features and functions across vendors
       may work in the field or how vendors could address those needs
   •   The decision makers need more information to justify proceeding with an RFP
   •   The agency has general questions for vendors that require open conversations between the parties
       (during certain phases of the RFP process, communications between agencies/entities and vendors
       may be restricted)

If an RFI is needed, please see the section "RFI Development Timeline" for more details on the RFI process.



General RFP Considerations
Before initiating the RFP planning process, users should be aware of various user-identified
considerations that impact the RFP and RFI processes.

System vs. Subscriber Unit Only Procurement
Many agencies or entities choose to include subscriber unit procurement as part of a system procurement
or implementation, while other agencies or entities choose to keep subscriber unit procurement separate
from system procurement. Also, most contracts include Maintenance and Replacement clauses which allow
for individual subscriber units to be obtained or replaced through the currently contracted vendor.
Agencies and entities should consult such contract terms before deciding to issue an RFI or RFP.

Legal, Statutory, and Ethical Compliance
During the procurement process, users should be mindful of all legal, statutory, or ethical requirements.
Project managers should consider the following activities throughout the process:
   •   Consult an attorney or agency legal counsel during the process to ensure that legal compliance
       and statutory deadlines (as applicable) are being met
   •   Keep record of any documentation received from vendors
   •   Document the decision-making process, including scoring and evaluation
   •   Follow all existing federal, state, or agency-specific procurement policies and procedures
   •   Be aware of appropriate times to communicate with vendors



                                            RFP and RFI Development Timeline for LMR Subscriber Units Procurement   |5
Additional User-Provided Considerations




Adaptation and Generalization
Although this RFP timeline guide is intended to reach a broad community of users, agencies and entities
should recognize that not all steps or actions discussed in this document apply to agencies at every level.
Factors such as size of the agency or entity, user needs, budget, laws, existing subscriber unit or system
vendors, and geopolitical circumstances impact the RFP process significantly, and as a result produce a
wide range of variation among agencies and entities. This document also does not address every user
need regarding subscriber units or subscriber unit procurement and should not be seen as comprehensive.
Consulting subject matter experts (SMEs), experienced users, or lawyers will be critical in identifying key
issues that affect the RFP process for individual agencies or entities. Agencies and entities should be
willing to adapt the RFP timeline presented in this document in accordance with their needs.


                                             RFP and RFI Development Timeline for LMR Subscriber Units Procurement   |6
RFP Development Timeline




                Figure 2 - RFP DEVELOPMENT TIMELINE DECISION POINT MILESTONES BY ACTIVITY


                                                            RFP and RFI Development Timeline for LMR Subscriber Units Procurement   |7
RFP Phases and Decision Point Milestones
For the purpose of organizing major events in the RFP process, groups of activities are delineated into
"RFP phases" and "RFP milestones" and assigned to highlight when all ongoing activities need to be
completed in order to move along in the process (see "Ongoing Activities" below). These ongoing
activities typically progress simultaneously — and sometimes independent of each other — but must come
together by the following milestones:
    •   Milestone A: RFP Release
    •   Milestone B: Notification of Intent to Award
    •   Milestone C: Contract Award

Ongoing Activities
Several ongoing activities occur concurrently or span the entire RFP and/or RFI development process.
Although some activities must occur before others may begin, oftentimes the processes vary between
agencies and entities, and the timelines for different activities may be flexible according to the operational,
political, or regulatory environment (e.g., budget may need to be appropriated).

As agencies or entities progress from Planning and Development into later phases of the RFP and RFI
processes, they should be aware that multiple processes may be occurring at the same time. It is
recommended the procuring agency appoint a project manager to oversee the development process and
ensure all applicable tasks are completed in their entirety and in accordance with the established RFP
development schedule.



Phase 1: Planning and Development
In this phase, all preparations and decision points prior to issuing the RFP are executed. This includes
developing and releasing an RFI (as applicable), and writing the RFP document.



 Key Developments

 Funding and Budget            • Establish initial budget for RFP development and team
                               • Develop a budget for the RFP and for projected subscriber unit costs
                               • Identify possible funding sources for subscriber unit procurement (e.g.,
                                   grants, budgetary allocation)
                                             RFP and RFI Development Timeline for LMR Subscriber Units Procurement   |8
Key Developments

                         • Prepare initial forecasts for funding needs
                         • Determine actual funding source(s)
                         • Approve funding source selection
Project Administration   • Identify the project champion/executive sponsor
                         • Assign project manager
                         • Identify RFI/RFP team, including contractor support
                         • Engage stakeholders, including potential vendors
                         • Consult existing subscriber unit or system contracts to see if
                           Maintenance and Replacement clause(s) of those contracts allow for
                           purchase of new subscriber units
                         • Verify or obtain (through the frequency manager or designated
                           personnel) proper spectrum band licensing from the Federal
                           Communications Commission (FCC), noting that licensing will take 90 to
                           120 days, at minimum
Requirements             • Identify need for new equipment
Development              • Determine need to issue RFI for requirements gathering
                         • Develop RFI per base user requirements (as applicable)
                         • Consider sponsoring an RFI “industry day”
                         • Release RFI (as applicable)
                         • Develop baseline user requirements
                         • Identify spectrum management considerations by ensuring radio units
                           can manage spectrum usage to support operable/interoperable
                           communications in a mutual aid situation
                         • Solicit vendor test equipment for end user testing evaluation
                         • Consult relevant standards (e.g., P25, Telecommunications Industry
                           Association (TIA), state code)
Writing, Editing, and    • Draft RFP per RFI responses (as applicable)
Recording                • Develop evaluation/scoring criteria and detailed requirements
                         • Prepare RFP written document for release



                                      RFP and RFI Development Timeline for LMR Subscriber Units Procurement   |9
 Key Developments

 Vendor Relations              • Identify potential vendors—perform research, if necessary, to list
                                  available manufacturers
                               • Consider sponsoring an “industry day” (optional)
                               • Appoint a point of contact for vendors, either from the procurement
                                  team or the agency (or both, if applicable)



Time Range
The Planning and Development phase of the RFP timeline has a broad range of timeframes for each piece
of development. The size of an agency/entity, quantity and scope of the subscriber units being procured,
relevant procurement policies, budget or funding procedures, and quantity and expertise of available
personnel contribute to the time it takes to plan and release an RFP.


Involving Third-Party Support
Agencies and entities may need to hire contractors to support RFP development efforts. The following
guidelines can help with the decision to evaluate and hire secondary/external support:
   •   Agency or entity does not have necessary expertise
   •   Process would be slowed significantly due to low number of available and qualified staff
   •   Contracted personnel would be more cost-effective than using in-house expertise


Grants and Other Government Funding
Agencies and entities should research opportunities for utilizing federal or state grant funding:
   •   Federal or state grants may be available to agencies and entities for LMR systems
   •   Some grants contain rules which may restrict an agency's or entity's ability to implement subscriber
       units or interoperate across adjacent systems, agencies, or entities
   •   Grants will include timeframe provisions, meaning that funds may need to be used within a certain
       timeframe or by a certain date
   •   Grants may also contain documentation requirements as prerequisites for submitting the grant
       application.



                                           RFP and RFI Development Timeline for LMR Subscriber Units Procurement   | 10
Budget Categories and Costs Planning
When considering the expense of procurement, three categories (only two categories, if not releasing an
RFI) of budgets should be considered:
   1. Costs associated with developing, writing, releasing, and evaluating the RFP
   2. Costs associated with developing and releasing the RFI
   3. Budget associated with the actual procurement of the subscriber units (i.e., the cost of the
       subscriber units)

The differences between the three budget categories and the costs associated with the various activities
(namely, the RFP, RFI, and procurement costs) should be considered from both a budgeting and
administrative perspective when initiating the RFP process.


Writing the RFP
The RFP document should follow an organized and consistent style and format. Legal counsel and/or
procurement officers or department should be sought to formalize any language which has statutory or
compliance mandates. Multiple versions of the RFP may be drafted before the final RFP document is
published and sent to vendors.


P25 Standards for Subscriber Units
To maintain compliance with industry standards for interoperability, agencies and entities are encouraged
to consult the Project 25 (P25) standards (http://www.project25.org/index.php) during requirements
development.



Milestone A: RFP Release
At Milestone A, the RFP document is published and sent to the vendors. The period to receive proposals
from vendors is opened. Below is a checklist of items that must be completed to reach Milestone A.


 Milestone A Checklist


 ☐        Funding secured and approved for RFP development and release


 ☐        Funding approved for subscriber units

                                          RFP and RFI Development Timeline for LMR Subscriber Units Procurement   | 11
 ☐         All technical requirements recorded


 ☐         RFP document drafted, edited, and approved for publication




Phase 2: Proposal Evaluation
The Proposal Evaluation phase involves receiving and evaluating vendor proposals.


Note: The Phase 2 and Phase 3 sections do not seek to guide users as to how vendor selection is
conducted, or to be all-inclusive to the decision-making process. Rather, these and subsequent sections
outline key steps in the phases of proposal evaluation, vendor selection, and contract execution as
pertaining to the procurement of subscriber units. This is done to demonstrate that the work of the
agency/entity and procurement team is not completed at RFP release, but happens in stages prior to
release.



 Key Developments

  •   Period to receive proposals from vendors is OPENED
  •   Questions from vendors during the open period have been addressed (see "Talking to Vendors"
      section below)
  •   Period to received proposals from vendors is CLOSED
  •   Vendors may not be allowed to communicate with the agency until Notification of Intent to Award
      (see "Talking to Vendors" section below)
  •   Evaluate and/or score the vendor proposals (only those received during the open response period)
      using predetermined methodology/criteria
  •   Record the analysis and conclusions
  •   Publish announcement of record and intent to award




                                            RFP and RFI Development Timeline for LMR Subscriber Units Procurement   | 12
Talking to Vendors
Due to the unique legal and political environment of each agency or entity, the rules regarding interfacing
with vendors after the RFP is released can vary significantly. Although this document does not intend to
answer all procurement-related vendor relations questions, this section addresses several common
practices that the user community identified. Agencies/entities may employ one or more of these
practices, according to governing procurement policies.
   •   Contact with Procurement Officer Only* — Many agencies/entities alight with or designate a
       procurement officer (who typically operates outside of the agency and the requirements team) who
       remains the sole point of contact (POC) after the RFP is released. All vendor RFP-related questions
       would be sent directly to the procurement officer. No communications would be permitted
       between the other members of the agency/entity and the vendor.
   •   "Cone of Silence"* — Procurement specialists often refer to the period of no contact between
       agencies and vendors as the “cone of silence.” This period begins at different stages of the RFP
       process, depending on procurement policy. However, agencies should be aware that a “cone of
       silence” should exist in the procurement process at some point in time after the RFP is released
       and the contract is awarded.
   •   Written Questions and Responses Only — Many agencies/entities only allow agency-vendor
       communications after RFP Release and before Notification of Intent to Award to be in writing. The
       procurement team or agency will only accept written questions and will send all question responses
       to all vendors.
   •   RFP Amendment — Along with the Written Questions and Responses Only approach, agencies will
       publish all responses to vendor questions in the form of an RFP addenda, appendix, amendment, or
       notification. This documentation will then be sent to all vendors to whom the RFP was released, not
       just to the agency who requested additional information.
   •   Pre-Proposal Conference — Pre-proposal conferences give all interested vendors an opportunity to
       meet with agencies or the procurement teams altogether in one place at the same time. Any
       questions regarding RFP language, conditions, or requirements can then be addressed. Results from
       the pre-proposal conference can be published and sent to vendors as an RFP amendment.


   * Note: Be aware that some exceptions may apply; consult procurement policy in these instances.




                                          RFP and RFI Development Timeline for LMR Subscriber Units Procurement   | 13
Milestone B: Notification of Intent to Award
At Milestone B, the vendors are notified that the proposal evaluation period has resulted in a selection of
a vendor(s). A contract is not signed at this time. Below is a checklist of items that must be completed to
reach Milestone B.


 Milestone B Checklist


 ☐        Period for receiving proposals has been opened and closed


 ☐        Proposals have been reviewed and evaluated and/or scored


 ☐        Pricing/cost analysis has been completed


 ☐        Vendor(s) has been selected


 ☐        Language for Notification of Intent to Award has been drafted and sent to the winning vendor




Phase 3: Contract Negotiation
The Contract Negotiation phase involves finalizing the terms and language of the acquisition contract.


 Key Developments

  •   Allow time for possible award protests from vendors
  •   Negotiate the terms, conditions, and prices of the contract
  •   Have a legal team review the contract language and terms
  •   Document the negotiation process in anticipation of award protests
  •   Finalize and sign the contract



Award Protests
When negotiating and executing a contract, keep in mind that vendors may contest the outcome of the
agency's vendor selection. Contracts that are larger in scale (e.g., high number of subscriber units, high
costs, long term) are particularly vulnerable to award protests. When writing the RFP, agencies and entities
                                           RFP and RFI Development Timeline for LMR Subscriber Units Procurement   | 14
may want to include details about award protest protocol and timelines. When evaluating and scoring
vendor proposals, agencies and entities should ensure compliance to all ethical standards and best
practices, as well as document any decision points or methodology relevant to vendor selection. Protest
protocols are typically defined by procurement policies and are usually required to include in the RFP.




Milestone C: Award Contract
At Milestone C, the agency and the selected vendor(s) enter into a contract. The contract is signed at this
time. Below is a checklist of items that must be completed to reach Milestone C.


 Milestone C Checklist


 ☐        Contract terms and conditions negotiated, documented, and made clear and final


 ☐        Budget/costs properly appropriated or defined


 ☐        Timeline for implementation established


 ☐        Contract signed




Phase 4: Post Award and Implementation
The Post Award and Implementation phase involves steps defined in the contract required to progress
from signing the contract to implementing the new subscriber units in the field.


 Key Developments
 •   Factor in amount of time to train or educate field operators (as necessary)
 •   Implement the new equipment in the system




                                           RFP and RFI Development Timeline for LMR Subscriber Units Procurement   | 15
RFI Development Timeline




                           Figure 3 - RFI DEVELOPMENT TIMELINE


                                                   RFP and RFI Development Timeline for LMR Subscriber Units Procurement   | 16
RFI Development and Release
Preparing and Releasing the RFI
   •   Describe the high-level needs of the subscribers, including known requirements
   •   Determine the timeframe/deadline of question and answer period
   •   Consider known range of vendors as well as adjacent/similar agencies or entities which may have
       similar needs or requirements
   •   Release the RFI to the vendor/subscriber unit user community
   Note: Many of the principles included in RFP development are also applicable to RFI preparation


Key Developments for RFI release
   •   Perform preliminary base end-user requirements research
   •   Determine need to issue RFI
   •   Identify potential vendors/other users
   •   Release RFI to vendor community
   •   Allow time for question/answer period with potential vendors
   •   Organize an “industry day” for vendors to demonstrate technologies (optional)
   •   Close response period and evaluate RFI responses
   •   Modify RFP language per RFI responses


Reviewing RFI Submissions
   •   Track information gathered from RFI responses for future reference (e.g., build an information
       database)
   •   Transfer useful information, terms, or requirements to the RFP under development
   •   As necessary, ask vendors follow-up questions


Timeline
User input suggests that the preparation, release, and response period for an RFI can be executed in a few
weeks, depending on the flexibility of resources and governing policies of the agency. Given that the RFI is
an exploratory phase for the agency, project overseers should not expect to spend too much time or
resources on developing an RFI, especially if the agencies or entities know what types of capabilities will
be addressed in the RFP.

                                           RFP and RFI Development Timeline for LMR Subscriber Units Procurement   | 17
