                                       REQUEST FOR PROPOSALS
                                            RFP No. 19-19

Gadsden County is seeking sealed proposals from qualified vendors with experience in Emergency
Management Planning, Financial and Grant Administration, Emergency Management Plans, Policies and
Procedures, Homeland Security Exercise and Evaluation Program (HSEEP) Exercises, National Incident
Management System (NIMS) Training Courses, and the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA)
Public Assistance (PA) Program to provide Emergency Management Consulting Services on and as
needed basis for a period of two (2) years with two potential one year extensions, at the County’s sole and
absolute discretion.    Proposals must be received in the Gadsden County Management Services
Department, 5-B E. Jefferson Street, Room 204, Quincy, FL 32351, no later than October 4, 2019 at 3:00
PM EST, and will be opened thereafter in the County Administrator’s Conference Room, 9 E. Jefferson
Street, Quincy, FL 32351.        Proposals must be in a sealed envelope marked “EMERGENCY
MANAGEMENT CONTRACTUAL SERVICES – RFP No. 19-19 and identified by the name and address
of the proposer and time and date of opening. Proposals received after the deadline will be rejected
and returned unopened. Gadsden County reserves the right to reject any and all proposals received, or
any part thereof, waive any formalities, re-advertise the RFP, and to accept the proposal that in its
judgment will be in the best interest of Gadsden County. Gadsden County does not discriminate because
of race, creed, color, national origin or handicap status. Any person requiring a special accommodation
because of a disability should contact the Gadsden County Sheriff’s Office at least five (5) days prior to the
proposal opening. EEO/AA.
Small business and minority businesses, women’s business enterprises, and labor surplus area firms are
encouraged to submit proposals and firms using such subcontractors are strongly encouraged to solicit
such firms in the subcontracting process. Any Contracts/subcontracts issued under this procurement must
comply with the necessary affirmative steps to assure that minority businesses, women’s business
enterprises and labor surplus area firms are used when possible, in accordance with 2 CFR § 200.321.


Anyone wishing to obtain RFP documents may contact Tashonda Whaley at tashondawhaley@tds.net
