Integrated	  Services	  Database	  Software	  RFP	  Questions	  and	  Answers	  
	  
       1. Is	  the	  total	  contract	  amount	  for	  the	  initial	  contract	  period	  (July	  1,	  2018	  –	  June	  30,	  2020)	  
          $2,400,000	  (1,200,000	  year)?	  
          	  
          The	  initial	  contract	  will	  be	  awarded	  for	  a	  2-­‐year	  period	  (July	  1,	  2018	  through	  June	  30,	  2020)	  for	  a	  
          total	  amount	  up	  to	  $2,400,000	  (up	  to	  $1,200,000	  per	  program	  year).	  	  The	  total	  amount	  of	  the	  
          initial	  contract	  will	  not	  exceed	  the	  $2,400,000.	  	  This	  amount	  will	  be	  dependent	  upon	  WIOA	  
          funding	  from	  the	  USDOL	  and	  may	  be	  subject	  to	  change.	  	  Please	  note	  that	  the	  amounts	  listed	  
          above	  are	  “maximum”	  amounts	  and	  are	  subject	  to	  negotiations.	  	  Proposals	  from	  respondents	  of	  
          this	  RFP	  and/or	  any	  contract	  resulting	  from	  this	  RFP	  may	  be	  less	  than	  the	  “maximum”	  amounts	  
          noted	  above.	  
          	  
       2. Are	  hardware	  costs	  to	  be	  included	  in	  the	  price	  proposal?	  
          	  
          Yes,	  hardware	  costs	  are	  to	  be	  included	  in	  the	  proposal	  amount.	  	  Hardware	  should	  be	  itemized	  as	  
          to	  what	  is	  needed.	  	  It	  may	  be	  subject	  to	  negotiations.	  
          	  
       3. What	  systems	  will	  the	  Integrated	  Services	  Database	  software	  replace?	  

          The	  requested	  Integrated	  Services	  Database	  software	  will	  replace	  the	  Alabama	  JobLink	  system	  
          for	  Wagner-­‐Peyser,	  Trade	  Act	  (TAA	  and	  R/TAA),	  Worker	  Profiling	  and	  Reemployment	  Services	  
          (RESEA),	  Jobs	  for	  Veterans	  State	  Grants	  (JVSG),	  Food	  Assistance	  Employment	  and	  Training	  
          Program,	  Temporary	  Assistance	  to	  Needy	  Families	  (TANF)	  JOBS	  program,	  Case	  Management	  for	  
          WIOA,	  Unemployment	  Compensation	  work	  test,	  Self	  Service	  jobseeker	  and	  employer	  services,	  
          the	  AlaWorks	  system	  for	  Adults,	  Dislocated	  Workers,	  Youth,	  and	  WIOA	  Reporting.	  	  It	  will	  also	  
          replace	  the	  Integrated	  Electronic	  Linkage	  System	  (IELS).	  
          	  
       4. What	  remaining	  systems	  will	  the	  Integrated	  Services	  Database	  software	  need	  to	  interface?	  
                 a. What	  is	  the	  frequency	  and	  expected	  size	  of	  each	  interface	  
	  
          Currently	  the	  Workforce	  Development	  Division	  (WDD)	  receives	  data	  files	  from	  the	  Alabama	  
          JobLink	  System	  on	  a	  nightly	  basis	  that	  is	  downloaded	  into	  the	  AlaWorks	  system.	  	  WDD	  receives	  
          data	  files	  from	  partner	  agencies,	  the	  Alabama	  Department	  of	  Rehabilitation	  Services,	  the	  Adult	  
          Education	  Division	  of	  the	  Community	  College	  System,	  the	  Department	  of	  Human	  Resources,	  
          SNAP	  and	  TANF	  programs,	  and	  those	  data	  files	  are	  downloaded	  into	  the	  IELS	  System	  on	  a	  
          routine	  schedule.	  	  The	  only	  direct	  interface	  with	  AlaWorks	  is	  the	  IELS	  system.	  	  However,	  the	  
          Alabama	  Joblink	  System	  has	  the	  Unemployment	  Insurance,	  New	  Hire	  and	  the	  TAA	  system	  
          interface	  and	  with	  the	  Alabama	  Department	  of	  Human	  Resources	  for	  the	  Food	  Assistance	  
          Employment	  and	  Training	  Program	  and	  for	  the	  Temporary	  Assistance	  to	  Needy	  Families	  (TANF)	  
          JOBS	  program.	  	  Alabama	  Joblink	  interfaces	  are	  daily.	  
          	  
       5. Is	  the	  state	  requesting	  a	  vendor	  hosted	  or	  State	  hosted	  environment?	  
          	  
   The	  Department	  of	  Commerce,	  Workforce	  Development	  Division	  and	  our	  partners	  are	  
   requesting	  a	  vendor	  hosted	  system.	  	  However,	  a	  State	  hosted	  system	  is	  an	  allowable	  option	  and	  
   should	  be	  spelled	  out	  in	  the	  proposal.	  	  This	  will	  be	  subject	  to	  negotiations.	  
   	  	  
6. Is	  labor	  exchange	  functionality	  (create	  job	  orders,	  create	  resumes,	  job	  matching)	  to	  be	  included	  
   in	  the	  Integrated	  Services	  Database	  software?	  	  	  

   Yes,	  the	  labor	  exchange	  functionality	  is	  to	  be	  included	  in	  the	  Integrated	  Services	  Database	  
   software.	  	  The	  labor	  exchange	  is	  a	  vital	  part	  of	  the	  services	  that	  are	  provided	  by	  the	  Alabama	  
   Career	  Center	  System	  and	  should	  be	  accessible	  online	  365/24/7	  by	  self-­‐service	  jobseekers	  and	  
   employers,	  as	  well	  as	  in	  the	  physical	  Career	  Center	  location.	  
   	  
   	  
7. Please	  provide	  an	  estimated	  number	  of	  users	  for	  the	  following	  categories	  
        a. Staff	  

      Approximately	  150	  staff	  in	  Workforce	  Development	  Division	  and	  the	  Alabama	  Career	  Center	  
      System	  use	  AlaWorks	  system.	  	  Approximately	  50	  staff	  in	  Workforce	  Development	  Division,	  the	  
      Department	  of	  Human	  Resources,	  the	  Department	  of	  Rehabilitation	  Services,	  and	  the	  Alabama	  
      Career	  Center	  System	  use	  the	  IELS	  system.	  Alabama	  JobLink	  has	  923	  active	  Case	  Manager	  
      accounts.	  

       a. Jobseekers	  
              Zero	  for	  AlaWorks	  and	  IELS;	  Alabama	  JobLink	  has	  1,107,960	  jobseeker	  accounts.	  
       b. Employers	  
              Zero	  for	  AlaWorks	  and	  IELS;	  Alabama	  JobLink	  has	  92,637	  employer	  accounts.	  
              	  
       	  
8. Please	  provide	  current	  database	  records	  counts	  for	  conversion	  estimation	  
       a. Unique	  jobseekers:	  JobLink	  1,107,960;	  Alaworks	  76,656;	  IELS	  319,797	  
       b. Jobseeker’s	  activities	  records	  JobLink	  -­‐	  	  
                       i. 1,135,422	  resume	  records	  
                      ii. 1,625,472	  job	  referrals	  
                    iii. 455,193	  job	  placements	  
                     iv. 614,780	  client	  notes	  
                      v. 1,020,153	  program	  notes	  
                     vi. 7,353,645	  services	  
                    vii. 8,022,318	  wage	  records	  
                   viii. 14,601	  scanned	  documents	  records,	  	  8,919,896	  kb,	  608	  GB	  data	  in	  use	  
                     ix. 43,077	  test	  scores	  
                      x. 92.2	  GB	  archived	  data	  
                     xi. 283	  GB	  reporting	  data	  
                    xii. 185	  GB	  production	  DB	  
       c. Job	  Orders	  JobLink	  1,588,608;	  Alaworks	  nor	  IELS	  have	  these	  
       d. Employers	  JobLink	  92,637;	  Alaworks	  nor	  IELS	  have	  these	  
              	  
9. The	  RFP	  file	  provided	  appears	  to	  contain	  the	  RFP	  twice.	  Please	  confirm	  that	  the	  RFP	  ends	  on	  
    page	  17	  and	  that	  there	  is	  no	  additional	  or	  different	  information	  in	  pages	  18	  through	  31.	  	  
    	  
    The	  RFP	  that	  is	  currently	  available	  on	  the	  STAARS	  system	  has	  a	  duplicate	  copy	  of	  the	  RFP	  
    included.	  	  The	  original	  and	  correct	  version	  of	  the	  RFP	  is	  page	  1	  –	  17.	  	  Pages	  18	  –	  31	  are	  
    duplicates.	  	  Please	  disregard	  Pages	  18	  -­‐	  31.	  	  There	  is	  no	  additional	  or	  revised	  information	  
    included	  on	  those	  pages.	  	  A	  copy	  of	  the	  RFP	  is	  also	  listed	  on	  the	  www.madeinalabama.com	  
    website.	  	  	  
    	  
10. Do	  the	  Alabama	  Department	  of	  Commerce	  and	  its	  partners	  prefer	  or	  require	  a	  vendor	  hosted	  or	  
    remote-­‐hosted	  solution?	  	  
    	  
    The	  Department	  of	  Commerce,	  Workforce	  Development	  Division	  and	  our	  partners	  are	  
    requesting	  a	  vendor	  hosted	  system.	  	  However,	  a	  State	  hosted	  system	  is	  an	  allowable	  option	  and	  
    should	  be	  spelled	  out	  in	  the	  proposal.	  	  This	  will	  be	  subject	  to	  negotiations.	  
    	  
11. Are	  the	  workforce	  partners	  listed	  in	  the	  RFP	  open	  to	  using	  a	  single,	  fully-­‐integrated	  system	  if	  
    that	  system	  meets	  the	  RFP	  requirements?	  
    	  
    The	  Alabama	  Department	  of	  Commerce,	  Workforce	  Development	  Division	  and	  the	  Alabama	  
    Department	  of	  Labor	  which	  are	  responsible	  for	  WIOA	  Title	  I	  and	  III	  services	  are	  primary	  
    recipients	  of	  the	  single,	  integrated	  system.	  	  The	  Alabama	  Community	  College	  System,	  Adult	  
    Education	  Division,	  WIOA	  Title	  II,	  and	  the	  Alabama	  Department	  of	  Rehabilitation	  Services,	  WIOA	  
    Title	  IV,	  currently	  have	  their	  own	  proprietary	  data	  systems	  and	  are	  not	  included	  in	  this	  
    integrated	  system	  RFP.	  	  However,	  partners	  will	  be	  provided	  any	  information	  should	  the	  
    integrated	  system	  have	  their	  program	  requirements	  included.	  	  This	  should	  be	  spelled	  out	  as	  an	  
    option	  but,	  the	  proposals	  should	  specifically	  address	  the	  services	  and	  requirements	  for	  Adults,	  
    Dislocated	  Workers,	  Youth,	  Labor	  Exchange,	  and	  TAA	  programs.	  	  	  
    	  	  	  
12. Would	  the	  combination	  of	  an	  existing	  system	  and	  a	  portal	  solution	  be	  considered?	  	  
    	  
    Yes,	  this	  option	  would	  be	  considered.	  	  The	  current	  AlaWorks	  and	  IELS	  systems	  are	  not	  internet	  
    based	  and	  are	  an	  ORACLE	  platform.	  	  The	  Alabama	  Department	  of	  Commerce,	  Workforce	  
    Development	  Division	  currently	  has	  a	  contract	  to	  perform	  the	  maintenance	  on	  these	  two	  
    systems.	  	  The	  Alabama	  Joblink	  System	  is	  an	  internet	  based	  system.	  The	  Alabama	  Department	  of	  
    Labor	  currently	  has	  a	  contract	  with	  AJLA	  for	  the	  Joblink	  System.	  	  This	  option	  would	  need	  to	  
    specifically	  address	  how	  it	  would	  complement,	  change	  or	  replace	  the	  current	  data	  systems.	  
    	  
13. Which	  partners’	  existing	  systems	  does	  this	  RFP	  seek	  to	  replace?	  	  
    	  
    The	  requested	  Integrated	  Services	  Database	  software	  will	  replace	  the	  Alabama	  Joblink	  system	  
    for	  Labor	  Exchange	  at	  the	  Alabama	  Department	  of	  Labor,	  the	  AlaWorks	  system	  for	  Adults,	  
    Dislocated	  Workers,	  Youth,	  and	  WIOA	  Reporting.	  	  It	  will	  also	  replace	  the	  Integrated	  Electronic	  
    Linkage	  System	  (IELS).	  	  The	  AlaWorks	  and	  the	  IELS	  systems	  are	  not	  internet	  based.	  These	  
    systems	  are	  at	  the	  Alabama	  Department	  of	  Commerce,	  Workforce	  Development	  Division.	  
    	  
14. On	  page	  6,	  section	  A.	  it	  states,	  “All	  of	  the	  above	  services	  and	  others	  should	  be	  included	  in	  the	  
    software	  package	  chosen	  by	  the	  Alabama	  Workforce	  Development	  System.”	  Please	  specify	  
    which	  “other”	  services	  should	  be	  included.	  Does	  this	  include	  Vocational	  Rehabilitation	  services?	  	  	  
    	  
    Other	  services	  may	  include	  state	  funded	  programs	  such	  as	  the	  Alabama	  Apprenticeship	  Program	  
    or	  discretionary	  grants	  or	  other	  workforce	  grants	  or	  programs.	  	  This	  may	  also	  include	  services	  or	  
    programs	  initiated	  as	  a	  result	  of	  cooperative	  agreements	  between	  Human	  Resources,	  Senior	  
    Services,	  or	  others.	  	  This	  does	  not	  include	  the	  Vocational	  Rehabilitation	  Services	  as	  they	  are	  
    under	  the	  Alabama	  Department	  of	  Rehabilitation	  Services	  and	  have	  their	  own	  proprietary	  data	  
    system.	  	  	  
    	  
15. July	  1,	  2018	  is	  referred	  to	  both	  as	  the	  Contract	  Effective	  Date	  and	  the	  Program	  Implementation	  
    date.	  Please	  clarify	  whether	  July	  1,	  2018	  is	  the	  date	  the	  project	  should	  commence,	  or	  the	  date	  
    the	  selected	  solution	  should	  “go	  live.”	  	  
    	  
    July	  1,	  2018	  is	  the	  beginning	  of	  the	  WIOA	  Program	  Year	  which	  means	  that	  funding	  for	  this	  RFP	  
    will	  be	  available	  on	  this	  date	  and	  since	  the	  funding	  will	  be	  available,	  the	  contract	  will	  be	  
    awarded	  for	  the	  effective	  date,	  July	  1,	  2018.	  	  WDD	  does	  not	  expect	  that	  the	  selected	  software	  
    solution	  will	  “go	  live”	  until	  later	  in	  Program	  Year	  2018.	  	  The	  Program	  Years	  run	  from	  July	  1	  
    through	  June	  30.	  
    	  
16. Please	  specify	  the	  desired	  “go	  live”	  date	  for	  the	  selected	  solution.	  	  
    	  
    WDD	  is	  unable	  to	  determine	  a	  specific	  “go	  live”	  date	  at	  this	  time.	  	  It	  will	  depend	  on	  a	  number	  of	  
    variables	  to	  include	  negotiations,	  records	  conversion,	  testing.	  	  It	  is	  expected	  that	  the	  system	  will	  
    “go	  live”	  no	  later	  than	  March	  31,	  2019.	  
    	  
17. Section	  VI.C.	  Proposal	  Content	  and	  Organization,	  page	  15,	  indicates	  that	  proposals	  must	  include	  
    a	  response	  to	  mandatory	  and	  desired	  technical	  specifications.	  Please	  clarify	  where	  in	  the	  RFP	  
    the	  mandatory	  and	  desired	  technical	  specifications	  are	  listed.	  Are	  they	  on	  page	  8	  and	  9,	  sections	  
    F.1	  (“The	  expected	  outcomes	  include…”)	  and	  F.2	  Additional	  Elements	  of	  Integrated	  Technology	  
    Solutions?	  
    	  
    The	  technical	  specifications	  that	  are	  required	  would	  be	  the	  USDOL	  Reporting	  requirements	  for	  
    the	  Adult,	  Dislocated	  Workers,	  Youth,	  Dislocated	  Worker	  Grants,	  Labor	  Exchange,	  and	  Trade	  
    Adjustment	  Act.	  	  These	  specifications	  are	  listed	  in	  the	  PIRL,	  TEGLs	  and	  other	  Reporting	  
    documents	  issued	  by	  the	  USDOL.	  	  	  
    	  
18. Where	  is	  Attachment	  A	  –	  Transmittal	  Document	  available	  for	  download	  and	  completion?	  	  
    	  
    The	  wording	  “Attachment	  A”	  should	  have	  been	  deleted.	  	  The	  Transmittal	  document	  is	  a	  letter	  
    that	  provides	  information	  in	  VI.	  E.	  a.	  i–iv.	  that	  identifies	  the	  submitting	  organization,	  person	  
    authorized	  by	  the	  organization	  to	  negotiate	  and	  contract	  for	  the	  organization.	  
    	  
19. Where	  is	  the	  Cost	  Response	  Form	  available	  for	  download	  and	  completion?	  
    	  
    There	  is	  not	  a	  Cost	  Response	  Form.	  	  The	  wording	  should	  have	  been	  changed	  to	  Cost	  Proposal	  to	  
    read	  the	  same	  as	  it	  is	  in	  other	  places	  in	  the	  RFP.	  
           	  
       20. Depending	  on	  the	  length	  of	  the	  proposal,	  can	  it	  be	  bound	  in	  a	  three-­‐ring	  binder	  instead	  of	  
           stapled	  or	  clipped	  in	  the	  upper	  left	  corner?	  	  
           	  
           Yes,	  a	  three-­‐ring	  binder	  is	  acceptable.	  	  	  
           	  	  
       21. Is	  item	  (k)	  Other	  Supporting	  Material	  Including	  Technical	  System	  Documentation	  in	  Section	  6.E	  
           (p.	  16)	  required	  to	  be	  included	  in	  the	  proposal?	  If	  so,	  please	  specify	  what	  type	  of	  other	  
           supporting	  material	  and/or	  technical	  system	  documentation	  is	  desired/required.	  	  
           	  
           It	  will	  not	  count	  against	  the	  proposal	  if	  left	  unanswered.	  	  If	  there	  are	  materials	  that	  support	  the	  
           proposal	  that	  would	  not	  fit	  into	  the	  other	  items,	  it	  may	  be	  included	  here.	  
           	  
       22. In	  Section	  V.A	  Cost	  Proposal,	  please	  clarify	  what	  is	  meant	  by	  (12)	  Updates	  to	  supplemental	  files,	  
           perhaps	  by	  providing	  an	  example.	  	  
           	  
           Updates	  to	  supplemental	  files	  would	  be	  providing	  data	  files	  to	  partner	  agencies,	  Adult	  
           Education,	  Department	  of	  Rehabilitation	  Services,	  Department	  of	  Human	  Resources,	  Job	  Corps,	  
           etc.	  on	  a	  regular	  basis	  in	  order	  to	  share	  participant	  data.	  	  	  
	  
       23. Sections	  G.2	  Proposal	  Content	  (p.	  10)	  and	  VI.E	  Proposal	  Organization	  (p.	  15)	  do	  not	  match.	  For	  
           example,	  the	  order	  of	  the	  Executive	  Summary	  and	  Table	  of	  Contents	  are	  reversed.	  Please	  clarify	  
           the	  section	  titles	  desired	  in	  the	  proposal	  and	  the	  order	  in	  which	  they	  should	  appear.	  
           	  
           Page	  10	  is	  incorrect.	  	  Page	  15	  is	  correct.	  	  The	  order	  should	  be	  Table	  of	  Contents	  then	  the	  
           Executive	  summary.	  
           	  
       24. Should	  the	  response	  to	  Technical	  Requirements/Specifications	  be	  its	  own	  section	  or	  included	  in	  
           G.2.e.	  Narrative	  to	  include	  budget?	  	  
	  
           It	  can	  be	  its	  own	  section	  or	  it	  may	  be	  included	  in	  the	  narrative	  section.	  	  Author’s	  discretion	  may	  
           be	  used	  to	  determine	  the	  best	  fit	  for	  the	  proposal.	  
           	  
       25. Please	  clarify	  whether	  “budget”	  in	  G.2.e	  Narrative	  to	  include	  budget	  and	  G.2.e	  Completed	  Cost	  
           Response	  Form	  are	  the	  same	  or	  different.	  If	  the	  budget	  is	  not	  the	  same	  as	  the	  cost	  response,	  
           please	  clarify	  what	  budget	  information	  is	  desired	  in	  the	  narrative.	  	  
	  
           The	  wording	  should	  be	  changed	  to	  Cost	  Proposal	  to	  read	  the	  same	  as	  it	  is	  in	  other	  places	  in	  the	  
           RFP.	  	  There	  is	  not	  a	  separate	  Cost	  Response	  Form.	  	  	  
           	  	  
       26. Please	  specify	  the	  content	  requirements	  for	  G.2.d	  Demonstrated	  Ability	  and	  Past	  Performance.	  	  
	  
             This	  section	  should	  demonstrate	  the	  organization’s	  ability	  to	  provide	  a	  proven	  and	  tested	  
             software	  solution	  for	  an	  integrated	  participant	  data	  and	  case	  management	  and	  reporting	  
             system.	  	  Past	  performance	  should	  indicate	  the	  software	  product/solution	  works	  effectively	  and	  
             efficiently.	  	  Include	  examples	  of	  past	  successes	  and	  names	  of	  agencies,	  companies,	  etc.	  
             	  
             	  
       27. Please	  specify	  the	  content	  requirements	  for	  G.2.f.	  Qualifications	  and	  References.	  How	  many	  
           references	  are	  required?	  	  	  
           	  
           References	  are	  not	  required,	  although	  they	  are	  recommended.	  	  If	  references	  are	  not	  available,	  
           indicate	  that	  in	  this	  section.	  
           	  
	  
       28. Please	  clarify	  G.2.i	  Copy	  of	  completed	  E-­‐Verify	  to	  include	  signature	  page.	  Where	  is	  this	  located?	  	  
	  
           This	  is	  the	  link	  to	  register	  with	  E-­‐Verify:	  https://www.uscis.gov/e-­‐verify.	  	  	  Once	  a	  company	  is	  
           registered,	  the	  document	  is	  electronically	  signed;	  and	  a	  copy	  of	  The	  E-­‐Verify	  Memorandum	  of	  
           Understanding	  for	  Employers	  can	  be	  printed,	  which	  may	  be	  a	  total	  of	  17	  pages	  -­‐	  +/-­‐.	  
           	  
       29. In	  what	  section	  of	  the	  proposal	  should	  the	  “Detailed	  description	  of	  Vendor’s	  firm”	  (VI.C.b,	  p.	  15)	  
           be	  included?	  The	  Executive	  Summary,	  the	  Narrative	  to	  include	  budget,	  or	  somewhere	  else?	  	  	  
	  
             It	  should	  be	  included	  in	  the	  Executive	  Summary	  section.	  	  	  
	  
       30. The	  Alabama	  Dept.	  of	  Commerce/Workforce	  Development	  Commission	  comprises	  7	  different	  
           regions	  with	  various	  roles	  and	  responsibilities.	  	  Do	  you	  envision	  training	  conducted	  in	  one	  
           location	  in	  each	  of	  the	  seven	  regions,	  one	  central	  location	  (such	  as	  Montgomery),	  or	  separate	  
           WIOA	  training	  events	  at	  each	  of	  the	  offices	  responsible	  for	  managing	  the	  program?	  	  	  This	  will	  
           help	  estimate	  the	  training	  duration	  and	  timeline.	  	  
	  
           It	  is	  expected	  that	  training	  would	  be	  provided	  at	  the	  Workforce	  Development	  Division’s	  office	  in	  
           Montgomery.	  	  Any	  training	  that	  may	  be	  done	  in	  the	  Career	  Centers	  or	  Local	  Areas	  will	  be	  done	  
           by	  WDD	  and	  partner	  staff.	  	  	  
           	  
       31. Do	  you	  propose	  that	  the	  winning	  offeror	  provide	  defined	  “Train	  the	  Trainer”	  Training	  for	  a	  
           specific	  number	  of	  Alabama	  WIOA	  staff,	  who	  will	  then	  train	  their	  staff	  on	  the	  new	  system,	  or	  
           training	  that	  encompasses	  all	  WIOA	  staff	  in	  the	  state?	  
           	  
           The	  winning	  contract	  recipient	  will	  be	  expected	  to	  provide	  “Train	  the	  Trainer”	  training	  for	  WDD	  
           and	  partner	  staff.	  	  It	  will	  be	  the	  responsibility	  of	  the	  WDD	  staff	  to	  train	  the	  Local	  Area	  and	  Career	  
           Center	  staff.	  	  	  
	  
       32. In	  direct	  correlation	  to	  the	  above	  question,	  what	  is	  the	  total	  number	  of	  staff	  users	  to	  be	  trained?	  
           This	  would	  be	  the	  normal	  agency	  user	  who	  would	  use	  the	  system	  to	  work	  with	  any	  part	  of	  the	  
           WIOA	  program	  participant	  process,	  such	  as	  setting	  up	  a	  user	  account,	  entering	  data,	  
           documenting	  services	  provided,	  etc.	  
	  
             The	  total	  number	  of	  staff	  to	  be	  trained	  would	  be	  approximately	  35	  WDD	  and	  partner	  staff.	  	  Of	  
             these,	  approximately	  12	  WDD	  and	  partner	  staff	  would	  be	  the	  trainers	  for	  the	  Career	  Center	  and	  
             Local	  area	  staff.	  
	  
       33. Pages	  18-­‐31	  appear	  to	  be	  duplicates	  of	  pages	  4-­‐17.	  	  Please	  clarify	  if	  there	  is	  additional	  
           information	  that	  was	  intended	  to	  be	  included	  on	  pages	  18-­‐31.	  

           The	  RFP	  that	  is	  currently	  available	  on	  the	  STAARS	  system	  has	  a	  duplicate	  copy	  of	  the	  RFP	  
           included.	  	  The	  original	  and	  correct	  version	  of	  the	  RFP	  is	  page	  1	  –	  17.	  	  Pages	  18	  –	  31	  are	  
           duplicates.	  	  Please	  disregard	  Pages	  18	  -­‐	  31.	  	  There	  is	  no	  additional	  or	  revised	  information	  
           included	  on	  those	  pages.	  	  A	  copy	  of	  the	  RFP	  is	  also	  listed	  on	  the	  www.madeinalabama.com	  
           website.	  	  	  
           	  
       34. Page	  10,	  item	  2.	  Proposal	  Content	  –	  item	  “a”	  references	  Transmittal	  Document	  (Attachment	  A),	  
           but	  there	  is	  no	  Attachment	  A	  included	  in	  the	  RFP.	  
           	  
           The	  wording	  “Attachment	  A”	  should	  be	  deleted.	  	  The	  Transmittal	  document	  is	  a	  letter	  that	  
           provides	  information	  in	  VI.	  E.	  a.	  i–iv.	  that	  identifies	  the	  submitting	  organization,	  person	  
           authorized	  by	  the	  organization	  to	  negotiate	  and	  contract	  for	  the	  organization.	  
           	  
       35. Page	  14,	  V.	  Cost	  Proposal.	  	  Item	  (2)	  Data	  Conversion	  –	  please	  provide	  details	  on	  the	  data	  to	  be	  
           converted,	  including	  data	  sources,	  amount	  of	  data.	  
	  
           Please	  refer	  to	  question	  8.	  	  	  
           	  
       36. Page	  8,	  Section	  F	  –	  Can	  you	  provide	  more	  details	  on	  “replacing	  existing	  systems”	  and	  
           “connectivity	  among	  other	  existing	  State	  IT	  systems	  and	  databases”?	  

           The	  requested	  Integrated	  Services	  Database	  software	  will	  replace	  the	  Alabama	  Joblink	  system	  
           for	  Labor	  Exchange	  at	  the	  Alabama	  Department	  of	  Labor,	  the	  AlaWorks	  system	  for	  Adults,	  
           Dislocated	  Workers,	  Youth,	  and	  WIOA	  Reporting.	  	  It	  will	  also	  replace	  the	  Integrated	  Electronic	  
           Linkage	  System	  (IELS).	  	  The	  AlaWorks	  and	  the	  IELS	  systems	  are	  not	  internet	  based.	  	  These	  
           systems	  are	  at	  the	  Alabama	  Department	  of	  Commerce,	  Workforce	  Development	  Division.	  
           	  
       37. Page	  13,	  Section	  D.5	  indicates	  that	  “The	  vendor	  should	  be	  able	  to	  provide	  a	  plan	  for	  disaster	  
           recovery	  and	  restoration	  including	  but	  not	  limited	  to	  data	  recovery	  and	  system	  
           restoration.”	  	  Should	  this	  plan	  be	  provided	  as	  part	  of	  this	  proposal	  or	  is	  the	  intention	  to	  provide	  
           it	  after	  the	  contract	  is	  executed?	  
	  
           The	  proposal	  should	  indicate	  that	  the	  organization	  has	  the	  ability	  to	  develop	  and	  provide	  a	  plan	  
           for	  disaster	  recovery	  and	  restoration.	  	  A	  plan	  specific	  to	  WDD	  and	  partner	  agencies	  would	  be	  
           developed	  after	  the	  contract	  is	  executed	  as	  one	  of	  the	  deliverables.	  	  	  
           	  
       38. The	  proposal	  references	  a	  “Completed Cost Response Form,” but there is no form included in the
           RFP.	  

             There	  is	  not	  a	  Cost	  Response	  Form.	  	  The	  wording	  should	  have	  been	  changed	  to	  Cost	  Proposal	  to	  
             read	  the	  same	  as	  it	  is	  in	  other	  places	  in	  the	  RFP.	  
             	  
       39. The	  page	  10	  list	  of	  the	  proposal	  content	  differs	  from	  page	  15	  E	  Proposal	  Organization	  (for	  
           example,	  the	  Table	  of	  Contents	  and	  Executive	  Summary	  are	  reversed).	  How	  should	  the	  proposal	  
           be	  organized?	  
           	  
           Page	  10	  is	  incorrect.	  	  Page	  15	  is	  correct.	  	  The	  order	  should	  be	  Table	  of	  Contents	  then	  the	  
           Executive	  summary.	  
	  
       40. Page	  6	  (and	  in	  the	  first	  paragraph	  on	  page	  11)	  states	  that	  the	  contract	  is	  two	  years	  with	  option	  
           to	  renew	  for	  another	  5	  years,	  but	  then	  on	  page	  16,	  under	  contract	  term,	  the	  RFP	  states	  contract	  
           is	  for	  five	  years.	  What	  is	  the	  duration	  of	  the	  contract?	  
           	  
           The	  awarded	  contract	  will	  begin	  July	  1,	  2018	  and	  end	  June	  30,	  2020	  for	  a	  period	  of	  2	  years.	  	  
           WDD	  may	  extend	  the	  maintenance	  contract	  annually	  up	  to	  an	  additional	  five	  (5)	  years	  provided	  
           the	  entity	  is	  performing	  well	  and	  subject	  to	  available	  funding.	  	  The	  total	  period	  covered	  by	  this	  
           RFP	  would	  be	  potentially	  seven	  (7)	  years.	  
           	  
	  
	  
