   Procurement and Contracting Services

Request for Proposals to Furnish The University of
Arizona with a New Integrated Planning, Budgeting,
      and Forecasting Technology Solution




              Please mark all proposal submission
            Envelopes with the following information

                  Sealed RFP # L181908
         Due on 2/22/19 no later than 2:00 PM, MST




                        Page 1 of 32
                      TABLE OF CONTENTS
                                       For
            REQUEST FOR PROPOSALS NO. L181908

SECTION #     TITLE
   1.0        Statement of Work

   2.0        Definitions
   3.0        General Information and Instructions to Proposers

   4.0        Agreement Terms and Conditions

   5.0        Scope of Work, Specifications, Technical Requirements

   6.0        Certifications and Forms (Vendor to complete and return with proposal)




                                Page 2 of 32
            PROCUREMENT AND CONTRACTING SERVICES
             REQUEST FOR PROPOSALS, RFP # L181908
1.0   STATEMENT OF WORK
      1.1   Summary. The Arizona Board of Regents (ABOR), on behalf of the University of Arizona, is
            soliciting proposals from interested vendors to furnish the University with a new integrated
            planning, budgeting, and forecasting technology solution to support its budget development,
            analysis, and forecasting processes that include: All Funds Operational Budgeting, Budget
            Allocations and Transfers, Capital Planning, Net Tuition Modeling, Resource Allocation Model
            (RCM) Reporting, Commitment Tracking, and Long-Range Planning Financial Statement
            Forecasting and Modeling.

      1.2   Coverage and Participation. The intended coverage of this RFP and any Agreement resulting
            from this solicitation shall be for the use of all Departments at the University of Arizona. The
            other State Universities, Arizona State University (ASU) and Northern Arizona University
            (NAU), along with Pima Community College (PCC) and any other educational institution or
            Governmental entity may access an Agreement resulting from this solicitation issued and
            administered by the University of Arizona.

2.0   DEFINITIONS

      2.1   Agreement / Contract. All types of agreements entered into by the Arizona Board of Regents,
            regardless of what they may be called, for the procurement of materials, services or
            construction, or the disposal of materials. Meaning is interchangeable.

      2.2   Customer. Unless otherwise implied by the context of the specific provision within this RFP,
            "Customer" means a customer of the vendor, other than the University.

      2.3   Contractor. Same as Successful Vendor.

      2.4   May, Should. Indicates something that is not mandatory but permissible, recommended or
            desirable.

      2.5   MST. Mountain Standard Time. We do not observe Daylight Savings Time.

      2.6   Must, Shall, Will. Indicates a mandatory requirement. Failure to meet these mandatory
            requirements may result in the rejection of your proposal as non-responsive.

      2.7   Proposal. The entirety of the vendor's responses to each point of this RFP, including any and
            all supplemental offers or information not explicitly requested within this RFP.

      2.8   Proprietary Information. Information held by the owner that if released to the public or anyone
            outside the owner’s organization, would be detrimental to its interests. It is an issue of fact
            rather than opinion. Pricing and/or revenues cannot be considered proprietary or confidential.
                                            Page 3 of 32
      2.9    Provider. Same as Vendor.

      2.10   Request for Proposals (RFP). A competitive process under which discussions and
             negotiations are allowed, it is not to be confused with a Request for Bid (RFB), in which goods
             or services are precisely specified and price is substantially the only competitive factor. This
             RFP provides the University the flexibility to negotiate to arrive at a mutually agreeable
             relationship. Price will be considered, but will not be the only factor of evaluation.

      2.11   Respondent. Same as Vendor.

      2.12   Response. Same as Proposal.

      2.13   Responsible Vendor. A person who has the capability, including necessary experience, to
             perform the contract requirements; who has the integrity and reliability which will ensure good
             faith performance and appropriate quality of the materials, services, construction or
             construction services, to be provided; and who is in compliance with any and all licensing
             requirements of the State of Arizona.

      2.14   Responsive Vendor. A person who submits a proposal which conforms in all material respects
             to the Request for Proposals.

      2.15   Successful Vendor. Any vendor selected by the University to receive a notice of award as a
             result of this RFP and to enter into a contract to provide the University with the products or
             services sought by this RFP

      2.16   Supplemental Agreement. Any supplemental terms and conditions agreed to by the parties
             in writing, which take precedence over all other documents governing the transaction.

      2.17   Supplier. Same as Vendor.

      2.18   University. Arizona Board of Regents (ABOR), a body corporate, for and on behalf of the
             University of Arizona.

      2.19   Vendor. For purposes of this RFP, "Vendor" means any entity responding to this RFP with the
             intention of winning the resulting award of contract, performing the work, and/or delivering the
             goods specified herein.

      2.20   Vendor’s Proposal. Same as Proposal.

      2.21   Vendor’s Response. Same as Proposal.

3.0   GENERAL INFORMATION AND INSTRUCTIONS TO PROPOSERS

      3.1    Original RFP Document. The Office of Procurement and Contracting Services shall retain
             the RFP, and all related terms and conditions, exhibits and other attachments, in original form
             in an archival copy. Any modification of these, in the vendor’s submission, is grounds for
             immediate disqualification.



                                             Page 4 of 32
3.2   University Demographics. For information about the University of Arizona, please visit the
      University’s Internet web page at: www.arizona.edu/. For specific demographic information,
      visit http://factbook.arizona.edu.

3.3   Schedule of Events. The following is the tentative schedule that will apply to this RFP, but
      may change in accordance with the University's needs.

      01/28/19     Issuance of RFP
      02/06/19     Technical Questions/Inquiries due no later than 12:00 PM/MST
      02/22/19     RFP is Due February 22, 2019, no later than 2:00 PM, MST
      TBD          Finalist Vendor Presentations

3.4   Pre-Proposal Conference. Not Applicable

3.5   Pre-Proposal Site Visit. Not Applicable

3.6   Accommodations for People with Disabilities. If the vendor or any of the vendor's
      employees participating in this RFP need, or have questions about the University's
      accommodations for people with disabilities, please make arrangements with Jeff Sembar at
      telephone     #    520-626-7439,    facsimile      #   520-621-5179,    email     address
      jsembar@email.arizona.edu. Such requests should be made as early as possible to allow time
      to arrange the accommodation(s).

3.7   PROPOSAL PREPARATION INSTRUCTIONS

      3.7.1   Vendor's Understanding of the RFP. In responding to this RFP, the vendor accepts
              the responsibility fully to understand the RFP in its entirety, and in detail, including
              making any inquiries to the University as necessary to gain such understanding. The
              University reserves the right to disqualify any vendor who demonstrates less than such
              understanding. Further, the University reserves the right to determine, at its sole
              discretion, whether the vendor has demonstrated such understanding. Related to this,
              the University's right extends to cancellation of award if award has been made. Such
              disqualification and/or cancellation shall be at no fault, cost, or liability whatsoever to
              the University.

      3.7.2   University Provides Information in Good Faith without Liability. All information
              provided by the University in this RFP is offered in good faith. Individual items are
              subject to change at any time. The University makes no certification that any item is
              without error. The University is not responsible or liable for any use of the information,
              or for any claims attempted to be asserted therefrom.

      3.7.3   Verbal versus Written Communication. Verbal communication shall not be effective
              unless formally confirmed in writing by the specified University procurement official in
              charge of managing this RFP’s process. In no case shall verbal communication
              override written communication.

      3.7.4   Questions, Communications and Inquiries between the University and Vendors.
              All Vendor inquiries, questions and requests for clarification related to this RFP
              are to be directed, in writing (email and facsimile are also acceptable), ONLY to the
              Buyer listed below. Once this RFP has been sent out, Vendors are not to contact
              any University Department, other than Procurement and Contracting Services,
              concerning this RFP, or risk disqualification (see Section 3.7.1 above):

                                       Page 5 of 32
For U.S. Mail – Only (Please note that all U.S. Mail, including Express Mail, is
delivered to the University’s Postal Services office and is then distributed to
University Departments, including Procurement and Contracting Services,
which may delay it by a day or more):

The University of Arizona
Procurement and Contracting Services
PO Box 210300
Tucson, Arizona 85721
Attn: Jeff Sembar

For other methods of delivery (e.g. FedEx, UPS, etc.):

The University of Arizona
Procurement and Contracting Services
University Services Annex, Bldg. 300A
220 W. 6th Street, 5th Floor
Tucson, Arizona 85701
Attn: Jeff Sembar

Telephone No. 520-626-7439
Facsimile No. 520-621-5179
Email Address: jsembar@email.arizona.edu

Applicable terms and conditions herein shall govern communications and inquiries
between the University and vendors, as they relate to this RFP.

Informal communications shall include but are not limited to requests from/to
vendors or vendors' representatives of any kind or capacity, to/from any University
employee or representative of any kind or capacity, with the exception of the
Purchasing Department, for information, comments, speculation, etc. Inquiries for
clarifications and information that will not require addenda may be submitted verbally
to the Buyer named above, at any time.

 Formal communications shall include but are not limited to the following.

     •   Questions concerning this RFP must be submitted in writing, and be received
         no later than 2/6/19 at 12:00 PM, MST.
     •   Errors and omissions in this RFP and enhancements. Vendors shall bring to
         the University’s attention any discrepancies, errors, or omissions that may
         exist within this RFP. Vendors shall recommend to the University any
         enhancements in respect to this RFP, which might be in the University’s best
         interests. These must be submitted in writing, and be received no later than
         2/6/19 at 12:00 PM, MST.
     •   Inquiries about technical interpretations must be submitted in writing, and be
         received no later than 2/6/19 at 12:00 PM, MST.
     •   Inquiries for clarifications / information that will not require addenda may be
         submitted verbally to the Buyer named above at any time during this process.
     •   Verbal and/or written presentations and pre-award negotiations under this
         RFP.
     •   Addenda to this RFP.



                        Page 6 of 32
        Informal communications shall cease on the date of distribution of this RFP and
        formal communications shall commence. On the date that the University
        notifies responding vendors of this RFP's results and executes the resulting
        contract with the successful Vendor, informal communications may resume and
        formal communications may cease.

3.7.5   Addenda and the University’s Response to Communications from Vendor. The
        University will make a good-faith effort to provide a written response to each question
        or request for clarification that requires addenda within five (5) University business
        days.

        All addenda will be posted to our web site only:

        http://pacs.arizona.edu/RFP-BID_Opportunities

            Vendors who want the addenda supplied to them in another form must
             notify Jeff Sembar of that requirement. Otherwise, it will be the vendor’s
             responsibility to check the web site for any additional information and
             addenda concerning this RFP.

        The University will not respond to any questions / requests for clarification that
        require addenda, if received by the University after 2/6/19 at 12:00 PM, MST.

3.7.6   Pricing and/or Revenue Proposal. Vendors shall indicate pricing and/or revenue
        offers in the appropriate spaces and/or areas provided in this RFP. The University
        may presume and hold as the vendor's final offer all pricing and/or revenue offerings,
        whether stated as amounts or percentages, and/or whether or not offered on an all-or-
        none basis, if not specified by the vendor. The University may accept or reject in part
        or entirely the vendor's pricing and/or revenue offerings when such offerings are not
        on an all-or-none basis. Vendor’s pricing and/or revenue proposals may not be
        modified after the RFP Due date and time unless University at its sole discretion
        decides that future negotiations will only enhance the Vendor’s offer to University.
        Should University decide that such negotiations would not be in University’s best
        interests, pricing and revenue offer by Vendor at Due date and time may be considered
        by University as the Vendor’s best and final offer. Unless otherwise specifically
        proposed by the vendor, the University reserves the right to hold such pricing and/or
        revenue proposal as effective for the entire intended contract term. The University
        may prescribe the manner and method by which pricing and/or revenue offerings shall
        be communicated in the vendor’s proposal. The University may reject any proposal in
        which the pricing and/or revenue offering does not conform to such prescribed manner
        and method. Vendors shall indicate pricing and/or revenue offers in the appropriate
        spaces and/or areas provided in this RFP. Vendors shall ensure that any departure
        from this condition results in an offer that is clearly cross-referenced to the applicable
        sections within this RFP. For any material departure from this condition, vendors shall
        provide clear and unambiguous explanations how the departure relates in detail to the
        applicable sections within this RFP. If the vendor responds with an "All-or-None"
        proposal, it shall be clearly and unambiguously marked as such.

3.7.7   Revisions to the RFP. The University may revise any part of this RFP for any reason
        by issuing addenda. The University will communicate additional information and
        addenda to this RFP by posting them on our web site.

        http://pacs.arizona.edu/RFP-BID_Opportunities
                                Page 7 of 32
                   Vendors that want the revisions supplied to them in another way
             must notify the Buyer listed in this document of that request. Otherwise, it
             will be the vendor’s responsibility to check the web site for any additional
             information and addenda concerning this RFP.

        Vendors are responsible for the information contained in such addenda, whether or
        not they acknowledge receipt. The University is under no obligation to communicate
        such addenda to vendors who notify the University that they will not be responding to
        this RFP. The University may determine whether an addendum will be considered as
        part of this RFP and/or as part of any resultant contract. The University shall reject
        vendors' responses to addenda if such responses are received after the RFP
        Due date and time.

3.7.8   Attention to Terms and Conditions. Vendors are cautioned to thoroughly
        understand and comply with all matters covered under the Terms and Conditions
        section of this RFP. The successful Vendor is expected to enter into a form of
        agreement approved by the Arizona Board of Regents. The University agreement
        terms and conditions included in this RFP are intended to be incorporated into this
        agreement. Proposals that are contingent upon any changes to these terms and
        conditions may be deemed to be non-responsive and may be rejected.

3.7.9   Required Signatures. The University may reject any vendor's response if it is not
        signed as indicated and/or required by the areas, spaces, or forms provided within this
        RFP.

3.7.10 Proposal Organization. Vendors shall present proposals in a format that can be
       readily incorporated into a contract. Vendors may present narrative proposals
       provided that such proposals follow the same outline and numbering scheme of this
       RFP, including full descriptive cross-references to all requirements listed in Section
       5.0. Vendors should ensure that their proposals include page numbers and are
       organized in a manner that will facilitate the University's evaluation of them.
       Please follow the outlined Content of Proposal below.

           Summary
            A brief introductory letter summarizing the ability of your Firm to provide the
            required scope of work for this project. Include the name, telephone number,
            and direct email address for the point-person.

           Experience
            Number of years firm has been in business
            Examples of similar projects
            Resumes of staff proposed for project services, including work location

           Description of work
            Verify understanding of work requested and what it will take to complete.
            Demonstrate your approach to the project, from management of the team, to
            the implementation of the solution. Vendor Questionnaire to be included in this
            section as the Attachment A Worksheet.

           Cost of work
            Submitted as the Attachment A Worksheet

                                Page 8 of 32
                 Schedule verification
                  Verify ability to meet the project schedule included in this RFP.

                 References
                  Provide details requested in section 5.18.

              The University reserves the right to reject without prior notice and without
              liability of any kind or amount any proposal that it deems overly complex,
              disorganized, or difficult to evaluate. The University reserves the right to make
              such a decision without any input or communication from any other party. Vendors
              shall ensure that, at a minimum, their proposals contain the components set forth in
              the following list.

                         Original required sections from this RFP
                         Any additional responses in corresponding sequence order
                         Any additional supporting data

      3.7.11 Collusion Prohibited. In connection with this RFP, vendor collusion with other
             vendors or employees thereof, or with any employee of the University, is prohibited
             and may result in vendor disqualification and/or cancellation of award. Any attempt by
             the vendor, whether successful or not, to subvert or skirt the principles of open and
             fair competition may result in vendor disqualification and/or cancellation of award.
             Such disqualification and/or cancellation shall be at no fault or liability whatsoever to
             the University.

      3.7.12 Improper Business Relationships / Conflict of Interest Prohibited. In connection
             with this RFP, each vendor shall ensure that no improper, unethical, or illegal
             relationships or conflict of interest exists between or among the vendor, the University,
             and any other party to this RFP. The University reserves the right to determine the
             materiality of such relationships, when discovered or disclosed, whether intended or
             not; and to decide whether or not vendor disqualification and/or cancellation of award
             shall result. Such disqualification and/or cancellation shall be at no fault or liability
             whatsoever to the University.

      3.7.13 Corrections, Changes, and Providing Information on Forms within the RFP.
             Vendors shall ensure that an authorized individual initials each correction using pen
             and ink. Vendors shall use pen and ink or typewriter in providing information directly
             on pages, or copies thereof, contained within this RFP.

      3.7.14 Proposal Bond. Not Applicable

      3.7.15 Performance and / or Payment Bonds. Not Applicable

      3.7.16 Anti-Kickback. In compliance with FAR 52.203-7, the University has in place and
             follows procedures designed to prevent and detect violations of the Anti-Kickback Act
             of 1986 in its operations and direct business relationships.

3.8   PROPOSAL SUBMISSION AND SUBSEQUENT ACTION
      Proposals must be delivered sealed; be received and be date / time stamped at the
      University’s Procurement and Contracting Services office reception desk, which is
      located on the 5th floor of the University Services Annex Building, 220 W. 6th Street,
      Tucson, AZ 85701, no later than 2/22/19 at 2:00 PM, MST.

                                      Page 9 of 32
Vendors, please be advised that it is your sole responsibility to ensure that your
proposal is received as described in the paragraph above. The University shall not be
responsible for any delay’s that may occur.

Proposals must be delivered sealed to:

          For U.S. Mail – Only (please note that all U.S. Mail, including Express Mail, is
          delivered to the University’s Postal Services office and is then distributed to
          University Departments, including Procurement and Contracting Services,
          which may delay it by a day or more):

          The University of Arizona
          Procurement and Contracting Services
          P.O. Box 210300
          Tucson, Arizona 85721
          Attn: Jeff Sembar

          For other methods of delivery (e.g. FedEx, UPS, etc.):

          The University of Arizona
          Procurement and Contracting Services
          University Services Annex, Bldg. 300A
          220 W. 6th Street, 5th Floor
          Tucson, Arizona 85701
          Attn: Jeff Sembar

no later than 2/22/19 at 2:00 PM, MST. The University shall not accept proposals received
by facsimile or email. The University shall, at the specified Due date and time, accept all
proposals that are otherwise in order. The University will allow interested parties to be present
for purposes of identifying which vendors have responded. The University will make no
immediate decision at such time, and there will be no disclosure of any information
contained in any proposal until after formal notice of award and execution of any
contract resulting from this RFP. When multiple solicitations have been scheduled to open
at the same date and time, the University will open solicitations that have interested individuals
present in sequential order by solicitation number. The University will hold unopened any
proposals received after the Due date and time, and will not consider such proposals.
The University reserves the right to retain or dispose of such proposals at its discretion;
however, the University may return such proposals to their related vendors, but only at such
vendor’s request and at no cost or expense whatsoever to the University.

If the University determines that due to an insufficient number of proposals received, it would
be in the University’s best interest, the University may extend the Due date in order to
determine why other vendors did not respond and to encourage other vendors to respond.

3.8.1   Proposal Costs. The University is not liable in any manner or to any extent for any
        cost or expense incurred by any vendor in the preparation, submission, presentation,
        or any other action connected with proposing or otherwise responding to this RFP.
        Such exemption from liability applies whether such costs are incurred directly by the
        vendor or indirectly through the vendor's agents, employees, assigns or others,
        whether related or not to the vendor.

3.8.2   Faxes and Emails Not Accepted. The University shall not accept proposals received
        by fax or email.
                                Page 10 of 32
      3.8.3   Number of Proposal Copies to be Furnished. Vendors are to submit one (1)
              original, in hardcopy form, along with a copy in electronic form, on a flash drive or other
              removable storage device, in either Microsoft Word or as an Adobe PDF file including
              Attachment A Worksheet which is to be submitted in a Microsoft Excel File.

      3.8.4   Binding and Marking. Vendors shall ensure that the original and each copy are
              individually bound. When submitting more than one (1) proposal, vendors shall ensure
              that units are clearly marked; for example, as "Original of Proposal One," "Copy One
              of Proposal One," "Original of Proposal Two," "Copy One of Proposal Two;" and so
              on.

      3.8.5   Marking of Envelopes. Vendors shall ensure that the submittal envelope(s) clearly
              and conspicuously display the following identifying information in addition to any other
              information otherwise required for transmittal, and are sealed.

              Sealed RFP # L181908
              Due 2/22/19 at 2:00 PM, MST
              Attn: Jeff Sembar
              Vendor Name

      3.8.6   Withdrawal of RFP. Vendors may withdraw their proposals any time prior to the RFP
              Due date and time. Vendors may request to withdraw their proposals after the RFP
              Due date and any time prior to selection and notice of award. The University shall
              have sole authority to grant or deny such a request. In the event the University grants
              such a request, it may withhold issuing future RFP’s to such vendors.

      3.8.7   University's Right to Use Vendor's Ideas / Proprietary Information. If the vendor
              needs to submit proprietary information with the proposal, the vendor shall ensure that
              it is enclosed in a separate envelope from the proposal and that it is clearly designated
              and conspicuously labeled as such.

              The University shall have the right to use any ideas that are contained in any proposal
              received in response to this RFP, along with any adaptation of such ideas. Selection
              or rejection of the proposal shall not affect the University’s right of use. Provided,
              however, that the University will, in good faith, honor any vendor information that is
              enclosed in a separate envelope from the proposal and clearly designated and
              conspicuously labeled as proprietary, and the University concurs that the information
              is proprietary. The envelope must also contain the reason(s) why the enclosed
              material is to be considered proprietary. Trade secrets or other proprietary data
              contained in the proposal documents shall be maintained as confidential in accordance
              with procedures promulgated by the Procurement Officer and subject to limitations in
              Arizona or Federal law. Pricing information cannot be considered proprietary or
              confidential. The University shall not be liable in any manner or in any amount for
              disclosing proprietary information if such information is not clearly so designated and
              conspicuously so labeled. The University shall likewise not be liable if it did not know
              or could not have reasonably known that such information was proprietary. At no time
              will the entire proposal be considered proprietary and be kept confidential.

3.9   EVALUATION PROCESS AND AWARD

      3.9.1   Contractual Intent / Right to Terminate and Recommence RFP Process. The
              University intends to contract with one or more vendors whose proposal(s) are
                                      Page 11 of 32
        considered to be in the best interests of the University. However, the University may
        terminate this RFP process at any time up to notice of award, without prior notice, and
        without liability of any kind or amount. Further, the University reserves the right to
        commence one or more subsequent RFP processes seeking the same or similar
        products or services covered hereunder.

3.9.2   Effective Period of Proposals. Under this RFP, the University shall hold that
        vendors' responses to this RFP shall remain in effect for a period of ninety (90) days
        following the Due date, in order to allow time for evaluation, approval, and award of
        the contract. Any vendor who does not agree to this condition shall specifically
        communicate in its proposal such disagreement to the University, along with any
        proposed alternatives. The University may accept or reject such proposed alternatives
        without further notification or explanation.

3.9.3   Proposal Acceptance/Rejection. The University reserves the right to reject any or
        all proposals. Such rejection may be without prior notice and shall be without any
        liability of any kind or amount to the University. The University shall not accept any
        proposal that the University deems not to be in its best interests. The University shall
        reject proposals submitted after the Due date and time.

3.9.4   Errors and Omissions in Vendors Proposals. The University may accept or reject
        any vendor's proposal, in part or in its entirety, if such proposal contains errors,
        omissions, or other problematic information. The University may decide upon the
        materiality of such errors, omissions, or other problematic information.

3.9.5   Determination of and Information Concerning Vendor's Qualifications. The
        University reserves the right to determine whether a vendor has the ability, capacity,
        and resources necessary to perform in full any contract resulting from this RFP. The
        University may request from vendors information it deems necessary to evaluate such
        vendors' qualifications and capacities to deliver the products and/or services sought
        hereunder. The University may reject any vendor's proposal for which such
        information has been requested but which the vendor has not provided. Such
        information may include but is not limited to:

          Financial resources
          Personnel resources
          Physical resources
          Internal financial, operating, quality assurance, and other similar controls and
           policies
          Resumes of key executives, officers, and other personnel pertinent to the
           requirements of the RFP
          Customer references
          Disclosures of complaints or pending actions, legal or otherwise, against the
           vendor

3.9.6   Apparently Conflicting Information Obtained by Vendor. The University is under
        no obligation whatsoever to honor or observe any information that may apparently
        conflict with any provision herein, regardless of whether such information is obtained
        from any office, agent, or employee of the University. Such information shall not affect
        the vendor's risks or obligations under a contract resulting from this RFP.

3.9.7   Rejection of Vendor Counter-offers, Stipulations and Other Exceptions. Any
        vendor exception, stipulation, counter-offer, requirement, and/or other alternative term
                               Page 12 of 32
        or condition shall be considered rejected unless specifically accepted in writing by the
        University and thereafter incorporated into any contract resulting from this RFP.

3.9.8   Method of Award. Each response to this RFP will be reviewed for its overall
        competence, compliance, format, and organization. Proposals which the University
        deems overly complex, disorganized, or difficult to evaluate may be rejected in
        accordance with Section 3.7.10 of this RFP. The award shall be made to the
        responsive and responsible vendor whose proposal is determined to be the most
        advantageous to the University of Arizona, taking into consideration the following
        evaluation criteria listed in the relative descending order of importance. Pricing must
        be a criterion. However, the University is under no obligation whatsoever to select, as
        most responsive the proposal that demonstrates the lowest pricing.

             Limiting Criteria
             The Limiting Criteria/Required Services (Section A of mandatory worksheet
             Attachment A) of the offer will be evaluated on a pass/fail basis. Any Vendor that
             does not meet the following criteria will be eliminated from further consideration:

              Does the solution provide at least eight planning dimensions?
              Can the solution accommodate multiple planning dimension formats for data
               fields (e.g., number, text, dates, Boolean, varying lengths and formatting,
               etc.)?
              Does the solution allow for flexibility to accommodate changes in
               organizational structure? For example, moving cost centers between
               functional areas at any point in the budgeting process.
              Does the solution accommodate multiple alternative hierarchies for the
               dimensions for planning or reporting needs?
              Does the solution support Security Assertion Markup Language (SAML) 2 for
               Single Sign On (SSO)?
              Does the solution provide or work with bi-directional data integration, ETL,
               and/or API tools? And, are all data available for insertion or extraction using
               the said tools? Does data integration include options for copying or moving
               data between planning models (“instances,” “plan files,” “templates,”
               “planning cubes,” etc.)?
              Can data integrations be run regularly, on a schedule, and on-demand?
              Will the University of Arizona own the data that gets stored in the solution?
              Does the solution support the creation of templates to provide to end-users
               for processes such as annual operating budgets, capital plans, long-range
               financial statement forecasts, and multi-year financial plans?

             Evaluation Criteria
             The Vendor Questionnaire and Cost & Terms Worksheet (Attachment A) will be
             evaluated based on the following criteria:

                Features and User Experience
                Data Access, Security, and Architecture
                System Administration, Including User Roles, and Group Management
                Implementation
                Support and Training
                Cost and Pricing Terms
                Reporting
                Company

                               Page 13 of 32
              Finalist Criteria
              Vendors who are asked to do a presentation onsite will be evaluated based on
              the following Demonstration Criteria. Detailed Demonstration Criteria
              requirements will be shared with finalist vendors prior to their onsite
              presentations. Scoring from the proposal phase will be carried forward to
              the demonstration phase.

              Demonstration Criteria
               System/Local Administrator Control of Flexibility in Design of Forms and
                Process
               Planner/End-User Experience
               Power User/Model Builder Experience
               System/Local Administrator Experience
               Overall Demo Presentation

        The contract will consist of the University’s RFP, the proposal with any and all
        revisions, award letter, and/or purchase order, and/or the signed agreement
        between the parties, as stated in that agreement.

3.9.9   Selection, Negotiation, Additional Information. Although the University reserves
        the right to negotiate with any vendor or vendors to arrive at its final decision and/or to
        request additional information or clarification on any matter included in the proposal, it
        also reserves the right to select the most responsive and responsible vendor or
        vendors without further discussion, negotiation, or prior notice. The University may
        presume that any proposal is a best-and-final offer.

3.9.10 Pre-Award Presentations. The University reserves the right to require presentations
       from the highest ranked vendors, in which they may be asked to provide information
       in addition to that provided in their proposals.

3.9.11 Pre-Award Negotiations. The University reserves the right to negotiate prior to award
       with the highest ranked vendors for purposes of addressing the matters set forth in the
       following list, which may not be exhaustive.

             Resolving minor differences and scrivener's errors
             Clarifying necessary details and responsibilities
             Emphasizing important issues and points
             Receiving assurances from vendors
             Obtaining the lowest and best pricing and/or revenue agreement

3.9.12 Notification of Non-Selection. The University reserves the right not to notify vendors
       whose RFP responses are not selected for further consideration or notice of award. If
       the University decides to notify such vendors in writing, it will send the notifications to
       the address indicated in each such vendor's proposal. Once the award has been
       finalized, a notice of award may be posted on our website.

3.9.13 Vendor's Need to Use Proprietary Rights of the University. All information
       proprietary to the University and disclosed by the University to any vendor shall be
       held in confidence by the vendor and shall be used only for purposes of the vendor's
       performance under any contract resulting from this RFP.

3.9.14 Public Record. After the award and execution of a contract resulting from this RFP,
       vendors' proposals become public record and are available for review during the
                                Page 14 of 32
                    University's regular office hours. The University will, in good faith and to the extent
                    allowed by law, honor any vendor information that is clearly designated and
                    conspicuously labeled as proprietary, and the University agrees that the information is
                    proprietary. If the vendor needs to submit proprietary information with the proposal,
                    the vendor shall ensure that it is enclosed in a separate envelope from the
                    proposal and that it is clearly designated and conspicuously labeled as such.
                    The envelope must also contain the reason(s) why the enclosed material is to
                    be considered proprietary. At no time shall the entire proposal be considered
                    proprietary and be kept confidential. The University shall not be liable in any manner
                    or in any amount for disclosing proprietary information if such information is not clearly
                    so designated and conspicuously so labeled. The University shall likewise not be liable
                    if it did not know or could not have reasonably known that such information was
                    proprietary. Pricing information cannot be considered proprietary or confidential.

            3.9.15 Certification. By signature on the “Proposal Certification” form included herein, the
                   Vendor certifies that the submission of the proposal did not involve collusion or other
                   anti-competitive practices. The Vendor has not given, offered to give, nor intends to
                   give at any time hereafter any economic opportunity, future employment, gift, loan,
                   gratuity, special discount, trip, favor, or service to a public servant in connection with
                   the submitted proposal. In addition, Vendor certifies whether or not any employee of
                   the University has, or has a relative who has, a substantial interest in any Agreement
                   that may result from this RFP. Vendor also certifies their status with regard to
                   debarment, or suspension by any Federal entity.

                    Failure to provide a valid signature affirming the stipulations required by this clause
                    shall result in the rejection of the submitted proposal and, if applicable, any resulting
                    Agreement. Signing the certification with a false statement shall void the proposal
                    and, if applicable, any resulting Agreement. Any resulting Agreement may be subject
                    to legal remedies provided by law. Vendor agrees to promote and offer to the
                    University only those services and/or materials as stated in and allowed for under
                    resulting Agreement(s).

4.0   AGREEMENT TERMS AND CONDITIONS
      The following are the Terms and Conditions that will become part of any Agreement consummated
      between the University and the Successful Vendor. In the event of a conflict between any
      provisions contained in any of the documents governing this transaction, the following shall
      be the order of precedence: Supplemental Agreement; Request for Proposals; Proposal.

      4.1   Actions of Successful Vendor. The University is under no obligation whatsoever to be bound
            by the actions of any Successful Vendor with respect to third parties. The Successful Vendor
            is not a division or agent of the University.

      4.2   Advertising. The Successful Vendor shall not advertise or publish information concerning the
            Agreement without prior written consent of the University. The University shall not
            unreasonably withhold permission.

      4.3   Americans with Disabilities Act and Rehabilitation Act. The Successful Vendor will
            comply with all applicable provisions of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the
            Rehabilitation Act, and all applicable federal regulations.

            All electronic and information technology and products and services to be used by University
            faculty/staff, students, program participants, or other University constituencies must be
            compliant with the Americans with Disabilities Act as amended and the Rehabilitation Act.
                                            Page 15 of 32
      Compliance means that a disabled person can acquire the same information, engage in the
      same interactions, and enjoy the same services as a nondisabled person, in an equally
      effective and integrated manner, with substantially equivalent ease of use.

      4.3.1 Electronic and Information Technology. Any acquisition considered electronic and
            information technology (EIT) as defined by the Access Board at 36 CFR 1194.4 and in
            the FAR at 2.101 must comply with Section 508 (36 CFR Part 1194) and, for web-based
            applications, WCAG 2.0, Level AA Guidelines. In addition, the submission of a
            completed Voluntary Product Accessibility Template (VPAT) is required so the
            University of Arizona may ascertain conformance. Proposals or bids without a
            completed VPAT may be disqualified from competition. The UA Guide to the VPAT and
            the templates themselves are available to assist vendors in this process. See
            information at http://itaccessibility.arizona.edu/guidelines/purchasing/vpat.

             EIT is information technology (IT) and any equipment or interconnected system or
             subsystem of equipment that is used in the creation, conversion, or duplication of data
             or information. EIT includes, but is not limited to:

                •   telecommunication products, such as telephones;
                •   information kiosks and transaction machines;
                •   World Wide Web sites;
                •   software;
                •   multimedia (including videotapes); and
                •   office equipment, such as copiers and fax machines.

             The University of Arizona reserves the right to perform real-world testing of a product or
             service to validate vendor claims regarding Section 508 conformance. To facilitate
             testing, the vendor will, upon request, provide the University with access to the product
             being considered for purchase for a period of at least 30 calendar days.

      4.3.2 Services and Products. An accessible service or product is one that can be used by
            as many people as possible, taking into account their physical, cognitive, emotional, and
            sensory differences.

             Services provided include, but are not limited to:

                •   education and training;
                •   cultural and athletic events;
                •   vehicle rentals
                •   event space and lodging; and
                •   parking and transportation.

             Products include, but are not limited to:

                •   office equipment;
                •   office and classroom furniture; and
                •   kiosks

4.4   Conflict of Interest. Pursuant to the provisions of Arizona Revised Statute § 38-511, the
      Arizona Board of Regents may, within three years after its execution, cancel the Agreement
      without penalty or further obligation if any person significantly involved in negotiating, drafting,
      securing or obtaining the Agreement for or on behalf of the Arizona Board of Regents becomes
                                       Page 16 of 32
       an employee in any capacity of any other party or a consultant to any other party with reference
       to the subject matter of the Agreement while the Agreement or any extension thereof is in
       effect.

4.5    Drug Free Workplace. The Successful Vendor agrees that in the performance of the
       Agreement, neither the Successful Vendor nor any employee of the Successful Vendor shall
       engage in the unlawful manufacture, distribution, dispensing, possession, or use of a controlled
       substance in conducting any activity covered by the Agreement. The University reserves the
       right to request a copy of the Successful Vendor’s Drug Free Workplace Policy. The Successful
       Vendor further agrees to insert a provision similar to this statement in all subcontracts for
       services required.

4.6    Equal Opportunity. The provisions of Section 202 of Executive Order 11246.41 C.F.R. Sec.
       60-1.4.41 C.F.R. Sec. 60-250.4 and 41 C.F.R. Sec. 60-741.4 are incorporated herein by
       reference and shall be applicable to the Agreement unless the Agreement is exempted under
       the rules, regulations or orders of the U.S. Secretary of Labor.

4.7    Federal, State, and Local Taxes, Licenses and Permits. Successful Vendor is solely
       responsible for complying with all laws, ordinances, and regulations on taxes, licenses and
       permits, as they may apply to any matter under this RFP. The Successful Vendor must
       demonstrate that they are duly licensed by whatever regulatory body may so require during the
       performance of the Agreement. Prior to the commencement of Agreement, the Successful
       Vendor shall be prepared to provide evidence of such licensing as may be requested by the
       University. Successful Vendor shall, at no expense to the University, procure and keep in force
       during the entire period of the Agreement all such permits and licenses.

4.8    Inspection and Audit. Pursuant to the provisions of Arizona Revised Statute § 35-214, all
       books, accounts, reports, files and other records relating to the Agreement shall be subject at
       all reasonable times to inspection and audit by the Arizona Board of Regents, The University
       of Arizona or the Auditor General of the State of Arizona, or their agents for five (5) years after
       completion or termination of the Agreement.

4.9    Liens. Each Successful Vendor shall keep the University free and clear from all liens asserted
       by any person or entity for any reason arising out of the furnishing of services or materials by
       or to the Successful Vendor.

4.10   Modifications. The Agreement can be modified or rescinded only by a writing signed by both
       parties or their duly authorized agents.

4.11   Non-Discrimination. The parties shall comply with all applicable state and federal statutes
       and regulations governing equal employment opportunity, non-discrimination, and immigration.

4.12   Sales and Use Tax. The Successful Vendor agrees to comply with and to require all of his
       subcontractors to comply with all the provisions of applicable law. The Successful Vendor
       further agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the University from any and all claims and
       demands made against it by virtue of the failure of the Successful Vendor or any subcontractors
       to comply with the provisions of any and all said laws. The University is not exempt from state
       sales and use tax, except for equipment purchased for research or development. Any
       equipment ordered as tax exempt shall be invoiced separately from taxable systems, even if
       purchased on the same purchase order as issued by the University.

4.13   Prohibited Harassment. Federal law and the policies of the University prohibit sexual
       harassment of University employees or students. Sexual harassment includes any unwelcome
                                        Page 17 of 32
       sexual advance toward a University employee or student, any request for a sexual favor from
       a University employee or student, or any other verbal or physical conduct of a sexual nature
       that is so pervasive as to create a hostile or offensive working environment for University
       employees, or a hostile or offensive academic environment for University students. University
       vendors, subcontractors and suppliers for this project are required to exercise control over their
       employees so as to prohibit acts of sexual harassment of University employees and students.
       The employer of any person who the University, in its reasonable judgment, determines has
       committed an act of sexual harassment agrees as a term and condition of the Agreement to
       cause such person to be removed from the project site and from University premises and to
       take such other action as may be reasonably necessary to cause the sexual harassment to
       cease.

4.14   Small Business Utilization Program. The University is committed to its Small Business
       Utilization Program and to the development of Small Business. If subcontracting is necessary,
       the Successful Vendor will make every effort to use Small Businesses in the performance of
       the Agreement.

4.15   Smoking and Tobacco Policy. This policy applies to the University of Arizona main campus
       in Tucson, the Arizona Health Sciences Center, the Phoenix Biomedical Center, UA South and
       all University vehicles. This policy applies to University students, faculty, employees,
       contractors, volunteers, and visitors on its campuses and in its vehicles. To view the complete
       policy, click on http://www.hr.arizona.edu/policy/classified-staff/408.0. The Successful Vendor
       is expected to respect this tobacco free policy and fully comply with it.

4.16   Export Control. The Parties acknowledge that any goods, materials, or services specified in
       this solicitation may be subject to the export control laws of the United States, specifically
       including, but not limited to, the requirements of the International Traffic in Arms Regulations
       (ITAR), 22 C.F.R. 120 et seq., and the Export Administration Regulations, 15 C.F.R. 730-774.
       Vendor shall inform the designated Buyer of the export classification in their response. The
       University may elect not to receive certain export controlled items.

4.17   No Boycott of Israel. As required by ARS §§ 35-393 to 35-393.01, Entity certifies it is not
       currently engaged in a boycott of Israel and will not engage in a boycott of Israel during the
       term of this Contract. However, unless and until the District Court's injunction in Jordahl v.
       Brnovich et al., Case No. 3:17-cv-08263 (D. Ariz.) is stayed or lifted, the Anti-Israel Boycott
       Provision (A.R.S. 35-393.01 (A)) is unenforceable and the State will take no action to enforce
       it.

4.18   Arbitration. The parties agree to arbitrate disputes filed in Arizona Superior Court that are
       subject to mandatory arbitration pursuant to ARS § 12-133.

4.19   Administrative (Legal) Remedies. The Arizona Board of Regents has promulgated
       Administrative (Legal) Remedies for alleged breaches or disputes arising from the Agreement.
       These remedies are exclusive and must be exhausted before the filing of any legal action.

4.20   Assignment-Delegation. No right or interest in the Agreement shall be assigned or delegation
       of any obligation made by Successful Vendor without the written permission of the University.
       Any attempted assignment or delegation by Successful Vendor shall be wholly void and totally
       ineffective for all purposes unless made in conformity with this paragraph.

4.21   Assignment of Anti-Trust Overcharge Claims. The parties recognize that in actual
       economic practice overcharges resulting from anti-trust violations are in fact borne by the

                                       Page 18 of 32
       ultimate purchaser; therefore, Successful Vendor hereby assigns to the University any and all
       claims for such overcharges.

4.22   Date for Reckoning Prompt-Payment Discount. For purposes of determining whether a
       prompt-payment discount, if applicable, may be taken by the University, the starting date of
       such reckoning period shall be the later of the date of a properly executed invoice or the date
       of completion of service and/or delivery of product.

4.23   Force Majeure. Neither party shall be held responsible for any losses resulting if the fulfillment
       of any terms or provisions of the Agreement are delayed or prevented by any cause not within
       the control of the party whose performance is interfered with, and which by the exercise of
       reasonable diligence, said party is unable to prevent.

4.24   Indemnification / Hold Harmless. The Successful Vendor shall indemnify, defend, and hold
       harmless to the fullest extent allowed by law the State of Arizona, the Arizona Board of Regents
       and the University, its officers, agents, and employees (“Indemnitees”) from any and all claims,
       demands, suits, actions, proceedings, loss, cost, and damages of every kind and description,
       including attorneys’ fees and/or litigation expenses, which may be brought or made against or
       incurred on account of breach, or loss of or damage to any property, or for injuries to or death
       of any person, or financial loss incurred by Indemnitees, caused by, arising out of, or
       contributed to, in whole or in part, by reasons of any act, omission, professional error, fault,
       mistake, or negligence of Successful Vendor, its employees, agents, representatives, or
       subcontractors, their employees, agents, or representatives in connection with or incident to
       the performance of the Agreement, or arising out of Workers Compensation claims,
       Unemployment Compensation claims, or Unemployment Disability Compensation claims of
       employees of Successful Vendor and/or its subcontractors of claims under similar such laws
       and obligations. Successful Vendor’s obligation under this provision shall not extend to any
       liability caused by the sole negligence of the State of Arizona, Arizona Board of Regents,
       University or its officers, agents, and employees. Such indemnification shall specifically
       include infringement claims made against any and all intellectual property supplied by
       Successful Vendor and third party infringement under the Agreement.

4.25   Insurance Requirements. Without limiting any liabilities or any other obligations of Successful
       Vendor, the Successful Vendor shall provide and maintain the minimum insurance coverage
       listed below unless otherwise agreed to in writing. Coverage shall be provided with forms and
       insurers acceptable to the University until all obligations under the Agreement are satisfied.

       •   Commercial General Liability (CGL) insurance with minimum limits of ONE MILLION
           DOLLARS ($1,000,000) each occurrence and TWO MILLION DOLLARS ($2,000,000)
           general aggregate.
       •   Commercial Automobile Liability insurance with a minimum combined single limit of ONE
           MILLION DOLLARS ($1,000,000) each occurrence.

       The insurance policies required in the two statements above shall be endorsed to name the
       State of Arizona, Arizona Board of Regents on behalf of the University of Arizona as additional
       insured and shall stipulate that the insurance afforded the Successful Vendor shall be primary
       insurance and that any insurance carried by the State of Arizona, the Arizona Board of Regents
       and the University of Arizona, their agents, officials or employees shall be excess and not
       contributory insurance to that provided by Successful Vendor.

       •   If applicable, Worker’s Compensation insurance in accordance with applicable Arizona
           Statutes, for any employees engaged in the performance of Agreement; and

                                       Page 19 of 32
       •   Employer’s Liability insurance with a minimum limit of FIVE HUNDRED THOUSAND
           DOLLARS ($500,000).

       A certificate of insurance acceptable to the University shall be furnished to the University prior
       to the commencement of Agreement as evidence that policies providing the required coverage,
       conditions and limits are in full force and effect.

4.26   Additional Insurance Requirements (Consultants, Lawyers, Architects and Engineers
       Agreements). In addition to the minimum insurance coverage and endorsement requirements
       stated in the paragraphs above, the Successful Vendor shall provide and maintain the minimum
       insurance coverage listed below unless otherwise agreed to in writing:

       •   Professional Liability/Errors and Omissions insurance with minimum limits of ONE MILLION
           DOLLARS ($1,000,000) each claim and ONE MILLION DOLLARS ($1,000,000) annual
           aggregate.

       A certificate of insurance acceptable to the University shall be furnished to the University prior
       to the commencement of Agreement as evidence that policies providing the required coverage,
       conditions and limits as stated within this paragraph and the above paragraphs are in full force
       and effect.

4.27   Additional Insurance Requirements (Medical Services Agreement). Not Applicable

4.28   Additional Insurance Requirements (Handling Hazardous Wastes). Not Applicable

4.29   Intellectual Property. It is understood and agreed that ownership of intellectual property
       developed as a result of fulfilling the requirements of this Request for Proposals belongs solely
       and exclusively to the Arizona Board of Regents on behalf of the University of
       Arizona. Documents/drawings used in this proposal belong to the Arizona Board of Regents
       on behalf of the University of Arizona and/or are being used with permission. Intellectual
       property as used herein, means all forms of legally protectable intellectual property, including
       copyrights, trademarks, inventions, patent applications, patents and mask works, drawings
       and/or blueprints. It is also understood and agreed that anything created as a result of an
       award of this proposal is considered a work for hire under the U.S. copyright laws and as such,
       the Arizona Board of Regents on behalf of the University of Arizona will own the copyright.

4.30   Labor Disputes. Successful Vendor shall give prompt notice to the University of any actual or
       potential labor dispute which delays or may delay performance of the Agreement.

4.31   Laws and Regulations. Successful Vendors are solely responsible for keeping themselves
       fully informed of and faithfully observing all laws, ordinances, and regulations affecting the
       rights of their employees, and shall protect and indemnify the University, its officers and agents
       against any claims of liability arising from or based on any violation thereof.

4.32   No Waiver of Right by the University. No waiver by University of any breach of the provisions
       of the Agreement by the Successful Vendor shall in any way be construed to be a waiver of
       any future breach or bar the University’s right to insist on strict performance of the provisions
       of the Agreement

4.33   Parking. The Successful Vendor shall obtain all parking permits and/or decals that may be
       required while performing project work on University premises. The Successful Vendor should
       contact Parking and Transportation Services located at 1117 E. Sixth St., Tucson AZ 85721-
       0181.
                                       Page 20 of 32
4.34   Performance and / or Payment Bonds. Not Applicable

4.35   Payment Terms. Payments by the University shall be subject to the provision of Title 35 of
       Arizona Revised Statutes relating to time and manner of submission of claims. The University’s
       obligation is payable only and solely from funds appropriated for the purpose of the Agreement.
       Unless otherwise stated herein, the payment terms for the Agreement are Net 30 days

4.36   Price Adjustment for Multi-Year Contracts. Price changes will normally only be considered
       at the end of one Agreement period and the beginning of another. Price change requests shall
       be in writing, submitted at least sixty (60) days prior to the end of the current Agreement period,
       and shall be supported by written evidence of increased costs to the Successful Vendor. The
       University will not approve unsupported price increases that will merely increase the gross
       profitability of the Successful Vendor at the expense of the University. Price change requests
       shall be a factor in the Agreement extension review process. The University shall, in its sole
       opinion, determine whether the requested price increase or an alternate option is in the best
       interest of the University.

4.37   Prior Course of Dealings. No trade usage, prior course of dealing, or course of performance
       under other agreements shall be a part of any agreement resulting from this RFP; nor shall
       such trade usage, prior course of dealing, or course of performance be used in the
       interpretation or construction of such resulting agreement.

4.38   Referencing of Orders. For each order issued against an agreement resulting hereunder, the
       University intends in good faith to reference this RFP for pricing, terms and conditions, delivery
       location, and other particulars. However, in the event the University fails to do so, the
       University’s right to such terms, conditions, and particulars shall not be affected, and no liability
       of any kind or amount shall accrue to the University.

4.39   Remedies and Applicable Law. The Agreement shall be governed by and construed in
       accordance with the laws of the State of Arizona. University and Successful Vendor shall have
       all remedies afforded each by said law. The venue in any action or litigation commenced to
       enforce the Agreement shall be instituted in the appropriate courts in Arizona.

4.40   Right of Assurance. Whenever one party to the Agreement in good faith has reason to
       question the other party’s intent to perform, he may demand that the other party give a written
       assurance of their intent to perform. In the event that a demand is made and no written
       assurance is given within ten calendar (10) days, the demanding party may treat this failure as
       an anticipatory repudiation of the Agreement.

4.41   Right of Offset. The University shall be entitled to offset against any sums due the Successful
       Vendor, any expenses or costs incurred by the University, or damages assessed by the
       University concerning the Successful Vendor’s non-conforming performance or failure to
       perform the Agreement, or any other debt owing the University, including expenses, costs and
       damages described in the termination provisions contained herein.

4.42   Termination

       4.42.1 Convenience. The University reserves the right to terminate the Agreement in whole
              or in part at any time when in the best interests of the University without penalty or
              recourse. Upon receipt of the written notice, the Successful Vendor shall immediately
              stop all work as directed in the notice, notify all subcontractors of the effective date of
              the termination and minimize all further costs to the University. In the event of
                                        Page 21 of 32
        termination under this provision, all documents, data and reports prepared by the
        Successful Vendor under the Agreement shall become the property of and delivered
        to the University. The Successful Vendor shall be entitled to receive just and equitable
        compensation for work in progress, work completed and materials accepted before the
        effective date of termination. Such compensation shall be the Successful Vendor’s
        sole remedy against the University in the event of termination under this provision.

4.42.2 Default. The University reserves the right to terminate the Agreement in whole or in
       part due to the failure of the Successful Vendor to comply with any term or condition
       of the Agreement, to acquire and maintain all required insurance policies, bonds,
       licenses and permits, or to make satisfactory progress in performing the Agreement.
       The University shall provide written notice of the termination and the reasons for it to
       the Successful Vendor. Upon termination under this provision, all goods, materials,
       documents, data and reports prepared by the Successful Vendor under the Agreement
       shall become the property of and be delivered to the University on demand. The
       University may, upon termination of the Agreement, procure, on terms and in the
       manner that it deems appropriate, materials or services to replace those under the
       Agreement. The Successful Vendor shall be liable to the University for any Excess
       Costs incurred by the University in re-procuring the materials or services.

4.42.3 Gratuities. The University may, by written notice to the Successful Vendor, cancel
       the Agreement if it is discovered by the University that gratuities, in the form of
       entertainment, gifts or other, were offered or given by the Successful Vendor, or any
       agent or representative of the Successful Vendor, to any officer or employee of the
       University with a view toward securing an Agreement or securing favorable treatment
       with respect to the awarding or amending, or the making of any determinations with
       respect to the performing of such Agreement. In the event the Agreement is canceled
       by the University pursuant to this provision, University shall be entitled, in addition to
       any other rights and remedies, to recover or withhold the amount of the cost incurred
       by Successful Vendor in providing such gratuities.

4.42.4 Insolvency. The University shall have the right to terminate the Agreement at any
       time in the event Successful Vendor files a petition in bankruptcy; or is adjudicated
       bankrupt; or if a petition in bankruptcy is filed against Successful Vendor and not
       discharged within thirty (30) days; or if Successful Vendor becomes insolvent or makes
       an assignment for the benefit of its creditors or an arrangement pursuant to any
       bankruptcy law; or if a receiver is appointed for Successful Vendor or its business.

4.42.5 Lack of Funding. The Agreement may be canceled without further obligation on the
       part of the Arizona Board of Regents and the University of Arizona in the event that
       sufficient appropriated funding is unavailable to assure full performance of the terms.
       The Successful Vendor shall be notified in writing of such non-appropriation as soon
       as reasonably possible. No penalty shall accrue to the Board or the University in the
       event this cancellation provision is exercised. This cancellation provision shall not be
       construed so as to permit the University to terminate the Agreement in order to acquire
       similar equipment, material, supplies or services from another party.

4.42.6 Stop Work Order. The University may at any time, by written order to the Successful
       Vendor, require the Successful Vendor to stop all or any part of the work called for by
       the Agreement for a period of ninety (90) days after the order is delivered to the
       Successful Vendor, and for any further period to which the parties may agree. The
       order shall be specifically identified as a Stop Work Order issued under this provision.
       Upon receipt of the order, the Successful Vendor shall immediately comply with its
                                Page 22 of 32
                terms and take all reasonable steps to minimize the incidence of costs allocable to the
                work covered by the order during the period of work stoppage. If a Stop Work Order
                issued under this provision is canceled or the period of the order or any extension
                expires, the Successful Vendor shall resume work. The University shall make an
                equitable adjustment in the delivery schedule or Agreement price, or both, and the
                Agreement shall be amended in writing accordingly.

       4.42.7 Suspension or Debarment. The University may by written notice to the Successful
              Vendor immediately terminate the Agreement if the University determines that the
              Successful Vendor has been debarred, suspended or otherwise lawfully prohibited
              from participating in any public procurement activity, including but not limited to, being
              disapproved as a subcontractor Vendor of any public procurement unit or other
              governmental body.

4.43   Continuation of Performance through Termination. The Successful Vendor shall continue
       to perform, in accordance with the requirements of Agreement, up to the date of termination,
       as directed in the termination notice.

4.44   Confidentiality. The parties shall comply with 20 USC Section 1232(g), the Buckley
       Amendment to the Family Educational Right and Privacy Act of 1974. Therefore, Vendor shall
       not be entitled to receive Employee or Student information directly from University, other than
       public information available in University directories which is not protected by federal or state
       privacy or confidentiality statutes or regulations. Vendor may solicit Employee and Student
       information directly from Employees and Students subject to prior disclosures by Vendor of all
       intended uses of such information. Regardless of the Employee or Student personal
       information, even if such information is publicly available via directories, Vendor shall under no
       circumstances sell, duplicate, market, or give to any person or persons, entities or other
       companies a list or other personal information of any or all Employees or Students. All identities
       and personal information Employees and Students shall remain confidential. And disclosure by
       Vendor occurring without the express prior written consent of the Employee or Student shall
       result in the immediate termination of this agreement.

4.45   Data Use, Ownership, and Privacy. The terms of this section apply if Supplier receives, has
       access to, stores, or analyzes any UA Data (as defined below). As between the parties, UA will
       own, or retain all of its rights in, all data and information that UA provides to Supplier, as well
       as all data and information managed by Supplier on behalf of UA, including all output, reports,
       analyses, and other materials relating to, derived from, or generated pursuant to the
       Agreement, even if generated by Supplier, as well as all data obtained or extracted through
       UA’s or Supplier’s use of such data or information (collectively, UA Data). UA Data also
       includes all data and information provided directly to Supplier by UA students and employees,
       and includes personal data, metadata, and user content.

       UA Data will be UA’s Intellectual Property and Supplier will treat it as UA Confidential
       Information (as defined below). Supplier will not use, access, disclose, or license, or provide
       to third parties, any UA Data, except: (i) to fulfill Supplier’s obligations to UA hereunder; or (ii)
       as authorized in writing by UA. Without limitation, Supplier will not use any UA Data, whether
       or not aggregated or de-identified, for product development, marketing, profiling,
       benchmarking, or product demonstrations, without, in each case, UA’s prior written consent.
       Supplier will not, directly or indirectly: (x) attempt to re-identify or de- aggregate de-identified
       or aggregated information; or (y) transfer de-identified and aggregated information to any
       third party unless that third party agrees not to attempt re-identification or de-aggregation. For
       UA Data to be considered de-identified, all direct and indirect personal identifiers must be
       removed, including names, ID numbers, dates of birth, demographic information, location
                                        Page 23 of 32
       information, and school information. Upon request by UA, Supplier will deliver, destroy,
       and/or make available to UA, any or all UA Data.

       Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Agreement allows Supplier to provide aggregated and
       de-identified data to third parties, then Supplier may provide such data solely to the extent
       allowed in the Agreement, and, unless otherwise stated herein, only if such data is
       aggregated with similar data of others (i.e. is not identified as UA, ABOR, or Arizona-specific).

4.46   Information Security. All systems containing University Data must be designed, managed,
       and operated in accordance with information security best practices and in compliance with all
       applicable federal and state laws, regulations and policies. To diminish information security
       threats, Licensor will (either directly or through its third party service providers) meet the
       following requirements:

       4.46.1 Access Control. Control access to the University’s resources, including sensitive
              University Data, limiting access to legitimate business need based on an individual’s
              job-related assignment. Licensor will, or will cause the system administrator to,
              approve and track access to ensure proper usage and accountability, and Licensor
              will make such information available to the University for review, upon the University’s
              request.

       4.46.2 Incident Reporting. Report information security incidents immediately to the
              University (including those that involve information disclosure incidents, unauthorized
              disclosure of University Data, network intrusions, successful virus attacks,
              unauthorized access or modifications, and threats and vulnerabilities).

       4.46.3 Off Shore. Direct services under this Agreement will be performed within the borders
              of the United States. Any services that are described in this Agreement that directly
              serve the University and may involve access to secure or sensitive University Data or
              personal client data or development or modification of software for the University will
              be performed within the borders of the United States. Unless stated otherwise in this
              Agreement, this requirement does not apply to indirect or "overhead" services,
              redundant back-up services or services that are incidental to the performance of this
              Agreement. This provision applies to work performed by subcontractors at all tiers and
              to all University Data.

       4.46.4 Patch Management. Carry out updates and patch management for all systems and
              devices in a timely manner and to the satisfaction of the University. Updates and patch
              management must be deployed using an auditable process that can be reviewed by
              the University upon the University’s request.

       4.46.5 Encryption. All systems and devices that store, process or transmit sensitive
              University Data must use an industry standard encryption protocol for data in transit
              and at rest.

       4.46.6 Notifications. Notify the University immediately if Licensor receives any kind of
              subpoena for or involving University Data, if any third-party requests University Data,
              or if Licensor has a change in the location or transmission of University Data. All
              notifications to the University required in this Information Security paragraph will be
              sent to UA Information Security at infosec@email.arizona.edu, in addition to any other
              notice addresses in this Agreement.



                                       Page 24 of 32
            4.46.7 Security Reviews. Complete SOC2 Type II or substantially equivalent reviews in
                   accordance with industry standards, which reviews are subject to review by the
                   University upon the University’s request. Currently, no more than two reviews per year
                   are required.

            4.46.8 Scanning and Penetration Tests. Perform periodic scans, including penetration
                   tests, for unauthorized applications, services, code and system vulnerabilities on the
                   networks and systems included in this Agreement at regular intervals in accordance
                   with industry standards and best practices. Licensor must correct weaknesses within
                   a reasonable period of time, and Licensor must provide proof of testing to the
                   University upon the University’s request.

            4.46.9 University Rights. The University reserves the right (either directly or through third
                   party service providers) to scan and/or penetration test any purchased and/or leased
                   software regardless of where it resides.

            4.46.10 Secure Development. Use secure development and coding standards including
                    secure change management procedures in accordance with industry standards.
                    Perform penetration testing and/or scanning prior to releasing new software versions.
                    Licensor will provide internal standards and procedures to the University for review
                    upon the University’s request.

            4.46.11 Data. An explicit acknowledgement that the contract allows the contract partner
                    access to confidential information.
                    • A stipulation that the confidential information will be held in strict confidence and
                    accessed only for the explicit business purpose of the contract.
                    • A guarantee from the contract partner that it will ensure compliance with the
                    protective conditions outlined in the contract.
                    • A guarantee from the contract partner that it will protect the confidential information
                    it accesses according to commercially acceptable standards and no less rigorously
                    than it protects its own customer's confidential information.
                    • A provision allowing for the return or destruction of all confidential information
                    received by the contract partner upon completion of the contract
                    • A stipulation allowing the entry of injunctive relief without posting bond in order to
                    prevent or remedy breach of the confidentiality obligations of the contract.
                    • A stipulation that any violation of the contract's protective conditions amounts to a
                    material breach of contract and entitles the University to immediately terminate the
                    contract without penalty.
                    • A provision allowing auditing of the contract partners' compliance with the contract
                    safeguard requirements.
                    • A provision ensuring that the contract's protective requirements shall survive any
                    termination of the agreement.

5.0   SCOPE OF WORK, SPECIFICATIONS, TECHNICAL REQUIREMENTS

      5.1   Project Approach. Our project approach will focus on an initial implementation of a new All
            Funds Operational Budgeting process within the tool. The software platform selected will need
            to accommodate future implementations to include Budget Allocations and Transfers, Capital
            Planning, Net Tuition Modeling, Resource Allocation Model (RCM) Reporting, Long-Range
            Planning Financial Statement Forecasting and Modeling, Commitment Tracking, and
            potentially Grants and Contract Planning and other internal planning or budgeting processes
            as needed. The Scope of this particular project will, however, be limited to the All Funds
            Operational Budgeting process.
                                           Page 25 of 32
5.2   Project Outcomes. The new All Funds Operational Budget process will incorporate 7 sub-
      processes.

5.3   Revenue Planning.

      5.3.1 Allocated Revenue will be loaded from existing Base Budget files from either the existing
            Budget System or our data warehouse. Allocated Revenue will be planned for future
            years using two scenarios: 1) RCM expected allocation and 2) Support unit request for
            new funding.

            5.3.1.1    RCM expected allocation scenarios will only be used and made available to
                       our revenue generating Responsibility Center Units (RCUs)/colleges. This
                       scenario will require an iterative submission of a variety of metrics, including
                       Student Credit Hour (SCH), student enrollment, Facilities and Administrative
                       (F&A) return, and Program Fees and Differential Tuition (PFDT) revenues.
                       This submission process will require colleges to submit these metrics, have
                       them reviewed and commented on by Provost Office personnel, returned for
                       revision, and resubmitted for final approval. The final approved metrics will
                       then generate an RCM expected allocation that will be loaded for colleges
                       much in the same manner historical allocation and base budgets are loaded.
                       These figures would then be unavailable for future editing as the process
                       proceeds.

            5.3.1.2    Support units will request new allocated funding by submitting a scenario that
                       requires an additional template outlining the intended use of the new funds
                       and providing a narrative attachment further delineating the relationship of the
                       funding to the University’s Strategic Plan.

                   5.3.1.2.1 Local Revenue will be planned by operational units on a zero-base.
                             They will be provided with three years of actuals and requested to plan
                             current year revisions as well as new revenues for four subsequent
                             fiscal years.

                   5.3.1.2.2 Revenue allocations and local plans will then load back into a
                             consolidated P&L planning steps for Operational Expenditures in step
                             4 below by GL Account. The data will be informational during that step
                             and will only be editable in the Revenue Planning function.

                   5.3.1.2.3 Additional in-form comments and explanations would be required,
                             including explanation of large year-to-year variances (above 5%).

5.4   Position Planning

      5.4.1 Position Planning will be achieved in a two-step process to include building a roster and
            then defining the funding for said roster.

            5.4.1.1    The Position Planning Rosters will be prepopulated/seeded with existing
                       positions and employees at the beginning of the budget planning cycle and
                       operating units will then be required to confirm the expected length of
                       employment or termination dates (if applicable) for existing employees. They
                       will be asked to enter new planned positions, FTE, and salaries for said
                       positions. Units will need to indicate whether a position is a “permanent line,”
                                     Page 26 of 32
                       meaning the position funding is expected to continue indefinitely. The
                       Position Planning Roster function will allow for employees to have multiple
                       positions and for units to plan pooled positions where more than one
                       employee occupies the position without having to identify or name the
                       individuals within the position for planning purposes. Position Planning will
                       need to accommodate a variety of payment plans, including academic, fiscal,
                       hourly, salaried, project-based, intermittent, and temporary. Benefits cost will
                       be planned based on a combination of pooled rates, graduate tuition
                       remission logic based on tuition rates and position FTE and contract length,
                       and independent allowances such as those provided for technology.

                    5.4.1.1.1 Position Funding will include outlining the funds, programs, and
                              organizations each position belongs to. If positions are funded across
                              organizations, then both organizations will ensure the obligation is
                              approved through work-flow. Position funding will include the concept
                              of “permanent lines” to allow for a required reporting obligation that
                              indicates the funding plan for all permanent positions. Position
                              Funding will then load back into a consolidated P&L planning for
                              Operational Expenditures in step 4 below by GL Account. The data will
                              be informational during that step and will only be editable in the
                              Position Planning function.

                    5.4.1.1.2 Additional in-form comments and explanations would be required,
                              including explanation of large year-to-year variances (above 5%).

5.5   Transfer, Debt, and Loan Planning.

      5.5.1 Transfer Planning will include a to/from Transfer planning tool that will ensure both sides
            of the obligation approve, through work-flow, the source and use of the transfer. Much
            like position planning, the Transfer planning process would ensure balance transfers
            between organizations and funds are visible and approved by both sides of the planned
            adjustment. Transfer obligation data will then load back into a consolidated P&L
            planning for Operational Expenditures in step 4 below by GL Account. The data will be
            informational during that step and will only be editable in the Transfer Planning function.

      5.5.2 Additional in-form comments and explanations would be required to explain the intended
            use or nature of an obligation, including attachment of internal loan, debt service, or
            other commitment supporting documentation.

5.6   Operational Expenditure Planning, including Capital Expenditures and Balance Sheet

      5.6.1 Operational Expenditures will be planned by operational units with the opportunity to
            build expenditure plans using historical information by fund, organization, and GL
            Account. As indicated above, Revenue, Position, and Transfer information will be
            presented within the Operational Plan in a P&L format for a consolidated presentation
            of the total financial picture of each Organization.

      5.6.2 Additional in-form comments and explanations would be required, including explanation
            of large year-to-year variances (above 5%).

      5.6.3 Separate forms and explanation would also be requested for large capital expenditures
            (greater than $10,000), and adjustments requested to balance sheet components other
            than Fund Balance.
                                      Page 27 of 32
5.7    Program Planning

       5.7.1 Users will provide a top-down/distribution of Program Plans using predefined allocation
             methodologies, such as % change or historical actuals.

       5.7.2 Program planning will be provided after all previous planning steps have been created
             and utilize a “break-back” methodology to assign Program Costs to organizations and
             funds.

5.8    Multi-Year Extension Planning

       5.8.1 Users will build out revisions to their Current Year Plans and create Next Year Plans in
             the 5 previous sub-processes. This process will allow users to extend their next year
             plans into years 2, 3, and 4 using a variety of extension logic options, to include %
             change, $ change, historical % change, historical dollar change, and metric based
             growth on FTE or HC.

       5.8.2 Additional in-form comments and explanations would be required, including explanation
             of large year-to-year variances (above 5%).

5.9    Finalized Summary Report Approval

       5.9.1 Once all previous planning steps have been completed a summary report and comment
             form would be populated and required as part of the submission of unit-level plans
             ensuring all units understood the overall financial picture and impact of their submitted
             plans.

       5.9.2 This final step would allow for the opportunity to attach additional supplemental
             information or plan requirements that may be determined by Senior Leadership that
             could include: new funding request justifications, explanation of strategic initiatives
             addressed, productivity measures, goals, accomplishments, etc. This submission would
             be provided as either an additional form to complete within the tool or a supplemental
             narrative attachment.

5.10   Planning Workflow and Collaboration. All planning sub-processes will go through an easy-
       to-follow and transparent workflow and approval process based on roles. Unit planners and
       the Office of Budget and Planning will be able to easily report, monitor, and communicate with
       each other about the status of their planning submissions. A series of reports and in-form
       conditional logic will be used to speed up the submission, analysis, and compilation process.
       Options will be provided for Office of Budget and Planning analysts to provide commentary and
       review of budget submissions that will remain with the submissions as formal documentation
       of approval.

5.11   Project Timeline. Implementation will run from March 2019 through December 2019, with a
       go-live target date of January 14th, 2020. Steps in implementation shall include time for design,
       build, testing, and training. Please provide a project plan identifying the expected completion
       dates for all of these phases.

5.12   Current Integration Points

            Oracle Peoplesoft HCM
            Kuali Financial System
                                       Page 28 of 32
            Oracle Business Intelligence and Data Warehouse
            In-House Budget System
            Ad-Hoc data loads – A handful of units may likely have prepared plans in another tool
             and may need to load data through an integration tool allowing them to bypass sub-
             processes 1-6 and move directly to sub-process 7 and final submission. Users would
             be provided the opportunity to provide the data in an approved format with all the
             required fields to load into the tool from other planning systems.

5.13   Term of Agreement. There shall be a three (3) year term from the effective date of a
       successfully negotiated agreement with up to two (2) additional one (1) year extensions upon
       mutual agreement.

5.14   Accessibility.

       5.14.1 Address compliance with WCAG 2.0 AA and UA Rehabilitation Act Section 508.

              a. Address accessibility for both user and administrator/staff functionality.

       5.14.2 Provide your VPAT for accessibility (Voluntary Product Accessibility Template) or your
              WCAG 2.0 Conformance Statement. Templates to be completed can be provided upon
              request.

              a. Include specific information regarding the accessibility of platform, keyboard
              navigation, and screen reader accessibility.

       5.14.3 Has your product been verified for accessibility with assistive technologies for all
              functionality? If so, was verification through in-house testing or via third tester/vendor?

              a. Please list OS, assistive technologies and applications (browsers) tested, including
              version numbers.

       5.14.4 Discuss where and how accessibility is included in your product development process.

       5.14.5 If you are designing digital content such as email, Web-based or Social Media content,
              discuss your efforts to ensure accessibility.

5.15   Detailed Pricing. Complete all questions on the Cost & Terms (3 Year) & Cost & Terms (5
       Year) Worksheet (see Attachment A). Please complete and submit in Excel format as a digital
       file as well as a hard copy file in the original proposal submittal.

5.16   Vendor Questionnaire. Vendor must respond to all questions listed on the Vendor
       Questionnaire (see Attachment A). Please complete and submit in Excel format as a digital file
       as well as a hard copy file in the original proposal submittal.

5.17   Method of Payment & Discount for Early Payment. The University’s preferred method of
       payment is via credit card. The University would issue a Purchase Order and upon receipt of
       goods or services, pay subsequent invoices by credit card.

       Will you accept payment via credit card?          Yes _____      No _____

       Do you offer an early payment discount?         Yes _____    No _____
       If yes, what is your offer? _____ % if paid within _____ days after the University receives a
       proper, accurate and uncontested Invoice for Payment.
                                       Page 29 of 32
             If payment via credit card is accepted and an early payment discount is offered, would the
             University receive the discount if paying by credit card? Yes _____ No _____

      5.18   References. Vendor to provide three (3) customer references, from comparable institutions for
             similar products or services specified in this RFP, including the names and telephone numbers
             of the contact persons. References from central budget and planning offices within higher
             education customers with 10,000 plus students are preferred. References may be contacted
             at any time during this solicitation process to determine an offeror’s qualifications. Include, at
             minimum, the following information:

                    Company name
                    Contact name
                    Phone number
                    Email address
                    Brief description of project scope and status of project

6.0   CERTIFICATIONS AND FORMS
      6.1    Certification of Proposal

      6.2    Legal Workers Certification (Required for all Contracts for: Services; Construction or
             Maintenance of Structure, Building or Transportation Facility; or Improvements to Real Property
             costing $100K and over)




                                             Page 30 of 32
6.1.   Certification of Proposal (vendor to complete and return with proposal)

Explanation. This certification attests to the vendor’s awareness and agreement to the content of this RFP
and all accompanying provisions contained herein.

Action. Vendor is to ensure that the following certificate is duly completed and correctly executed by an
authorized officer of your company.

This proposal is submitted in response to Request for Proposals # L181908, issued by the University of
Arizona. The undersigned, as a duly authorized officer, hereby certifies that _______________
____________________________________________________                   (Vendor    Name),     located      at
______________________________________________________________________(address), agrees
to be bound by the content of this proposal and agrees to comply with the terms, conditions and provisions
of the referenced Request for Proposals (RFP) and any addenda thereto in the event of an award.
Exceptions are to be noted as stated in the RFP. The proposal shall remain in effect for a period of ninety-
(90) calendar days as of the Due Date for responses to the RFP.

The undersigned certifies that to the best of his/her knowledge: (check one)
               There is no officer or employee of the University of Arizona who has, or whose relative has, a
substantial interest in any Contract award subsequent to this proposal.
              The names of any and all public officers or employees of the University of Arizona who have,
or who's relative has, a substantial interest in any Contract award subsequent to this proposal are identified
by name as part of this submittal.

The undersigned further certifies that their firm (check one)     IS or     IS NOT currently debarred,
suspended, or proposed for debarment by any federal entity. The undersigned agrees to notify the University
of any change in this status, should one occur, until such time as an award has been made under this
procurement action.

In accordance with Purchasing Policy 4.3 – Small Business Utilization Program, the Undersigned further
certifies that your business (check the appropriate areas)   does or        does not meet the Federal (S.B.A.)
Small Business definition (FAR 19.001) and size standards (FAR 19.102). If it does, please “CHECK” one
of the following:     Small Business     Small Disadvantaged      Small Business Women-Owned         Women-
Owned Disadvantaged            Veteran owned       HUB Zone      Disabled Veteran Owned         Alaska Native
Corp.      Historically Black Colleges and Universities and Minority Institutions

Arizona Small Business (has less than 100 fulltime employees, including employees employed in any
subsidiary or affiliated corporation) please “CHECK one of the following: AZ. Small Business
AZ. Women Owned           AZ Disadvantaged      AZ Disadvantaged Women-owned.

The undersigned further certifies that as a duly authorized officer, is authorized to negotiate in good faith on
behalf of this firm for purposes of this Request for Proposals.
Name: ________________________________               Title: ____________________________

Signature: _____________________________             Date: ________       Email: __________

Telephone #: ______________           Facsimile #: ______________         F.E.I.N: _______________




                                              Page 31 of 32
6.2.    LEGAL WORKER CERTIFICATION

       Required for all Contracts for: Services; Construction or Maintenance of any Structure, Building or
       Transportation Facility; or Improvements to Real Property costing $100K and over.

Date: _____________________

Procurement and Contracting Services
University of Arizona
PO Box 210300Tucson, AZ 85721-0300

As required by Arizona Revised Statutes §41-4401 the University is prohibited after September 30, 2008 from
awarding a contract to any contractor who fails, or whose subcontractors fail, to comply with Arizona Revised
Statutes § 23-214-A. The undersigned entity warrants that it complies fully with all federal immigration laws and
regulations that relate to its employees, that it shall verify, through the employment verification pilot program as
jointly administered by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security and the Social Security Administration or any of its
successor programs, the employment eligibility of each employee hired after December 31, 2007, and that it shall
require its subcontractors to provide the same warranties to the below entity.

The undersigned acknowledges that a breach of this warranty by the below entity or by any subcontractor(s) under
any Contract resulting from this solicitation shall be deemed a material breach of the Contract and is grounds for
penalties, including termination of the Contract by the University. The University retains the right to inspect the
records of the below entity, subcontractor(s) and employee(s) who perform work under the Contract, and to conduct
random verification of the employment records of the below entity and any subcontractor(s) who perform work under
the Contract, to ensure that the below entity and each subcontractor is complying with the warranties set forth
above. Contractor shall be responsible for all costs associated with compliance with such programs.

________________________________                   ________________________________
(Firm)                                             (Address)

________________________________                   ________________________________
(Signature Required)                               (Phone)

________________________________                   ________________________________
(Print Name)                                       (Fax)

________________________________                   ________________________________
(Print Title)                                      (Federal Taxpayer ID Number)




(November 3, 2009)




                                                Page 32 of 32
