REQUEST FOR PROPOSALS (RFP)
                   FOR
        LEGAL SERVICES
                   FOR
   PROGRESSIVE HOUSING
        SOLUTIONS, INC.
                   AND
     AFFILIATED ENTITIES


         RFP# 10252019-PHS



                Prepared by:


   The Progressive Housing Solutions, Inc.
        400 East Tuscarawas Street
             Canton, OH 44702
                                         Request for Proposal
                                                 For
                                         RFP # 10252019-PHS


The Progressive Housing Solutions, Inc. and its affiliated entities are seeking sealed proposals from
qualified firms with demonstrated professional competence and experience in providing legal services for
real estate development projects.
All responses to the RFP must be enclosed in a sealed envelope and labeled as follows with the specific
information: RFP # 10252019-PHS. The RFP response must be addressed to Progressive Housing
Solutions, Inc., Procurement & Contracting Department, 400 East Tuscarawas Street Canton, Ohio
44702.

This Request for Proposals (RFP) contains submission requirements, scope of services, period of services,
terms and conditions and other pertinent information for submitting a proper and responsive proposal.
Prospective proposers desiring any explanation or interpretation of the solicitation must request it at least
ten (10) calendar days before the RFP submittal deadline. The request must be addressed to the
Procurement and Contracting Department, at the address stated above. Any information given to a
prospective proposer about this solicitation will be furnished to all other prospective proposers as a written
amendment to the solicitation.

Late submissions will not be accepted. Submissions received prior to the opening will be held in confidence
until the opening. Submissions will be evaluated on the criteria stated in the RFP. After evaluation of the
responses, the Contract will be awarded to the proposer/s representing the "Best Value" to PHS, INC. and
its affiliated entities and reserves the right to reject any and all submissions.

Progressive Housing Solutions, Inc., will receive proposals for Legal Services  until 2:00 P.M.
Eastern Time, March 12, 2020, at Progressive Housing Solutions, Inc. 400 E. Tuscarawas Street
Canton, OH 44702, at which time and place all submittals will be opened.

The Request for Proposals can be obtained online at http://www.starkmha.org; or by contacting the
Procurement & Contracting Department, at bids@starkmha.org

Notice: Contact with members of the Board of Commissioners, or officers and employees other
than the contact person shown above, by any prospective Proposer, after publication of the RFP
and prior to the execution of a contract with the successful proposer(s) could result in
disqualification of your proposal. In fairness to all prospective Proposer(s) during the RFP process,
if meets in person with anyone representing a potential provider of these services to discuss this
RFP other than at the pre-submittal meeting, an addendum will be issued to address all questions
so as to insure no Proposer has a competitive advantage over another. This does not exclude
meetings required to conduct business not related to the RFP, or possible personal presentations
after written qualifications have been received and evaluated.


                                                      The Progressive Housing Solutions, Inc.
                                                      Canton, OH
                                                    Table of Contents

INTRODUCTION ........................................................................................................................... 4

RFP INFORMATION AT A GLANCE ............................................................................................. 4

REQUEST FOR PROPOSAL ........................................................................................................ 5

   1.0 GENERAL INFORMATION ............................................................................................... 5
   2.0 PROGRESSIVE HOUSING SOLUTIONS INC.’S RESERVATION OF RIGHTS: .............. 5
   3.0 CONDITIONS TO BID: ...................................................................................................... 7
   4.0 FORM OF PROPOSAL: .................................................................................................... 9
   5.0 PROPOSAL EVALUATION ............................................................................................. 10
   6.0 RIGHT TO PROTEST...................................................................................................... 13
   7.0      DISPUTES UNDER THE CONTRACT .......................................................................... 13
   8.0     ADDITIONAL CONSIDERATIONS ................................................................................. 14

ATTACHMENTS

ATTACHMENT A: SCOPE OF WORK/TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONs ..................................... 18
ATTACHMENT B: FORM OF PROPOSAL .................................................................................. 21
ATTACHMENT C: PROPOSAL FEE SHEET .............................................................................. 23
ATTACHMENT D: PROPOSER'S CERTIFICATION ................................................................... 25
ATTACHMENT E: PROFILE OF FIRM ........................................................................................ 27
ATTACHMENT F: VENDOR REGISTRATION FORM ................................................................ 28
ATTACHMENT G: NON COLLUSIVE AFFADAVIT ..................................................................... 29
                                     INTRODUCTION



Progressive Housing Solutions, Inc., is a nonprofit entity that was formed to provide housing and
housing assistance to Stark County families.




                         RFP INFORMATION AT A GLANCE


          CONTACT PERSON                      Procurement & Contracting Specialist
                                              bids@starkmha.org


                                              1. Access: www.starkmha.org.

   HOW TO OBTAIN THE RFP                      2. Email request to:
        DOCUMENTS                                Procurement & Contracting Department
                                                 bids@starkmha.org

                                              Submit 1 unbound original, 3 bound copies and 1
                                              electronic copy (CD or flash drive) of the proposal
HOW TO FULLY RESPOND TO THIS                  to the Procurement & Contracting Dept. in the
            RFP                               format as described under item 5.0, Form of
                                              Proposal. Use the Form of Proposal checklist
                                              (Attachment A)

            DATE ISSUED                       February 12, 2020


            Q & A DEADLINE                    March 2, 2020 by 12:00 P.M.


                                              March 12, 2020 at 2:00 P.M.
   RFP SUBMITAL RETURN &
         DEADLINE                              Procurement & Contracting Dept.
                                              400 East Tuscarawas Street Canton, Ohio 44702


  ANTICIPATED AWARD DATE                      March 2020
                            REQUEST FOR PROPOSAL
1.0   GENERAL INFORMATION:

      1.1   Statement of Purpose: The Progressive Housing Solutions, Inc. and its
            affiliated entities are seeking proposals from qualified, licensed and bonded
            entities to provide legal services for real estate development projects. The
            term of the service agreement (Contract) will begin with an initial contract term
            of three (3) years with a two (2) year renewal option. Renewal option must be
            agreed upon in writing by both parties.

      1.2   Prospective proposers acknowledge by downloading and receiving the RFP
            documents and/or by submitting a proposal that the submission of a proposal to is
            not a right by which to be awarded a contract, but merely is an offer by the
            prospective proposer to perform the requirements of the RFP documents in the event
            decides to consider to award a contract to that proposer.

      1.3   Proposer’s Responsibilities-Contact with PHS, Inc.: It is the responsibility of the
            proposer to address all communication and correspondences pertaining to this RFP
            process to only the Contract and Procurement Specialist via email at
            bids@starkmha.org. Proposers must not make inquiry or communicate with any
            other staff member or official (including members of the Board of Commissioners)
            pertaining to this RFP. Failure to abide by this requirement may be cause for to not
            consider a proposal submittal received from any proposer who has not followed this
            directive. During the RFP solicitation process, the Contract and Procurement
            Specialist will not conduct any ex parte conversations which may give one
            prospective proposer an advantage over other prospective proposers.

      1.7   Type of Contract resulting from RFP: Firm Fixed Pricing

2.0   PROGRESSIVE HOUSING SOLUTIONS INC.’S RESERVATION OF RIGHTS:

      2.1   PHS, INC reserves the right to reject any or all proposals, to waive any informality in
            the RFP process, or to terminate the RFP process at any time, if deemed by to be in
            its best interests.

      2.2   PHS, INC reserves the right not to award a contract pursuant to this RFP.

      2.3   PHS, INC reserves the right to terminate a contract awarded pursuant to this RFP,
            at any time for its convenience upon 14 days written notice to the successful
            proposer(s).

      2.4   PHS, INC reserves the right to determine the days, hours and locations that the
            successful proposer(s) shall provide the services called for in this RFP.

      2.5   PHS, INC reserves the right to retain all proposals submitted and not permit
            withdrawal for a period of 90 days subsequent to the deadline for receiving proposals
            without         the         written      consent         from         the        CA.
2.6    PHS, INC reserves the right to negotiate the fees proposed by all proposers. If such
       negotiations are not, in the opinion of Progressive Housing Solutions Inc.’s Contract
       and Procurement Specialist successfully concluded within a reasonable timeframe
       as determined by Progressive Housing Solutions Inc.., shall retain the right to end
       such negotiations.

2.7    PHS, INC reserves the right to reject and not consider any proposal that does not
       meet the requirements of this RFP, including but not necessarily limited to
       incomplete proposals and/or proposals offering alternate or non-requested services.

2.8    PHS, INC. shall have no obligation to compensate any proposer for any costs
       incurred in responding to this RFP.

2.9    PHS, INC. reserves the right to at any time during the RFP or contract process to
       prohibit any further participation by a proposer or reject any proposal submitted that
       does not conform to any of the requirements detailed herein. Each prospective
       proposer further agrees that he/she will inform the Contract and Procurement
       Specialist in writing within five (5) days of the discovery of any item that is issued
       thereafter by that he/she feels needs to be addressed. Failure to abide by this
       timeframe shall relieve Progressive Housing Solutions Inc., but not the prospective
       proposer, of any responsibility pertaining to such issue.

2.10   PHS, INC. reserves the right, prior to award, to revise, change, alter or amend any
       of the instructions, terms, conditions, and/or specifications identified within the RFP
       documents issued, within any attachment or drawing, or within any addenda issued.
       All addenda will be posted on Progressive Housing Solutions Inc.’s website
       www.starkmha.org. Such changes that are issued before the proposal submission
       deadline shall be binding upon all prospective proposers. It is the responsibility of
       the proposer to ensure all addenda have been received.

2.11   In the case of rejection of all proposals, Progressive Housing Solutions Inc. reserves
       the right to advertise for new proposals or to proceed to do the work otherwise, if in
       the judgment of Progressive Housing Solutions Inc., the best interest of will be
       promoted.

2.12   PHS, INC. reserves the right to, without any liability; cancel the award of any
       proposal(s) at any time before the execution of the contract documents by all parties.

2.13   PHS, INC. reserves the right to reduce or increase estimated or actual quantities in
       whatever amount necessary without prejudice or liability to, if:

       2.13.1 Funding is not available,

       2.13.2 Legal restrictions are placed upon the expenditure of monies for this
              category.

       2.13.3 Progressive Housing Solutions Inc.’s requirements in good faith change after
              award of the contract.
             2.14    PHS, INC. reserves the right to make an award to more than one proposer
                     based on ratings and to award with or without negotiations or a best and final
                     offer (BAFO).

      2.15 PHS, INC. reserves the right to require additional information from all proposers to
           determine level of responsibility. Such information shall be submitted in the form
           required by within two (2) days of written request.

      2.16    PHS, INC. reserves the right to amend the contract any        time prior to contract
             execution.

      2.17 PHS, INC. reserves the right to contact any individuals, entities, or organizations that
            have had a business relationship with the proposer regardless of their inclusion in
           the reference section of the proposal submittal.

      2.18 In the event any resulting contract is prematurely terminated due to nonperformance
           and/or withdrawal by the Contractor, Progressive Housing Solutions Inc. reserves
           the right to seek monetary restitution (to include but not limited to withholding of
           monies owed) from the Contractor to cover costs for interim services and/or cover the
           difference of a higher cost (difference between terminated Contractor’s rate and new
           company’s rate) beginning the date of Contractor’s termination through the contract
           expiration date.


3.0   CONDITIONS TO BID:
      3.1  Pre-Qualification of Proposers: Prospective proposers will not be required to
           prequalify in order to submit a proposal. However, all proposers will be required to
           submit adequate information showing the proposer is qualified to perform the
           required work (i.e. Vendor Registration Form (ATTACHMENT F). Failure by
           the prospective proposer to provide the requested information may, at
           Progressive Housing Solutions Inc.’s discretion, eliminate that Proposer from
           consideration, provided that all Proposers were required to submit the same
           information.
      3.2  RFP Forms, Documents, Specifications and Drawings:
           3.2.1 Prior to submitting a proposal in response to the RFP, it shall be each
                  prospective proposer’s responsibility to examine carefully and, as may be
                  required, properly complete all documents issued pursuant to this RFP.
             3.3     Submission and Receipts by Progressive Housing Solutions Inc.:
             3.3.1   Time for Receiving Proposals: Proposals received prior to the proposal
                     submittal deadline shall be securely kept, unopened, by Progressive Housing
                     Solutions Inc. The Contract and Procurement Specialist, whose duty it is to
                     open such proposals, will decide when the specified time has arrive. No
                     proposal received after the designated deadline shall be considered.
                     3.3.1.1 Proposers are cautioned that any submittal that is time stamped as
                     being received by Progressive Housing Solutions Inc. after the exact time set
                     as the deadline for the receiving of proposals shall not be considered. Any
              such proposals inadvertently opened shall be ruled to be invalid. No
              responsibility will be attach to Progressive Housing Solutions Inc. or any
              official or employee thereof, for the pre-opening of, or the failure to open a
              proposal not properly addressed and identified.
              3.3.1.2 A total of one (1) unbound original signature copy (marked
              “ORIGINAL”), three (3) unbound copies and one (1) electronic copy (CD or
              flash drive), shall be placed unfolded in a sealed package with the proposer’s
              name and return address and addressed as follows:
                            RFP # 10252019-PHS
                               Legal Services
                         {March 12, 2020; 2:00 P.M.}
                     Progressive Housing Solutions, Inc.
                   Procurement & Contracting Department
                          400 E. Tuscarawas Street
                             Canton, OH 44702

      3.3.2    Withdrawal of Proposals: Late Submissions, Modifications and
               Withdrawal of proposals. Negligence on the part of the proposer in preparing
               his/her proposal confers no right of withdrawal or modification of his/her
               proposal after such proposal has been received and opened.

      3.3.2.1 Procedure to withdraw proposal submittal: A request for withdrawal of a
              proposal due to a purported error need not be considered by Progressive
              Housing Solutions Inc. unless filed in writing by the proposer within 48 hours
              after the proposal deadline. Any such request shall contain a full explanation
              of any purported error and shall, if requested by Progressive Housing
              Solutions Inc., be supported by the original calculations on which the
              proposal was computed, together with a certification and notarization thereon
              that such computation is the original and was prepared by the proposer or
              his/her agent, who must be identified on the notarized form. The foregoing
              shall not be construed that such withdrawal will be permitted, as retains the
              right to accept or reject any proposed withdrawal for a mistake.
3.4   Exceptions to Specifications:
      3.4.1   A prospective proposer may take exception to any of the proposal documents
              or any part of the information contained therein, by submitting, in writing to
              the Contract and Procurement Specialist, at least seven (7) days prior to the
              proposal submission deadline, a complete and specific explanation as to
              what he/she is taking exception. Proposed alternate documents or
              information must also be included. Progressive Housing Solutions Inc.
              reserves the right to agree with the prospective proposer and issue a revision
              to the applicable RFP requirements, or may reject the prospective proposer’s
              request.
      3.4.2   When taking exception, prospective proposers must propose services
              that meet the requirements of the RFP documents. Exceptions to the
                     specification and/or approved "equal" requests may be discussed at the
                     scheduled pre-proposal conference (if scheduled). All verbal instructions
                     issued by the officers not already listed within the RFP documents
                     shall only become official when issued as addenda or as a written answer
                     issued pursuant to receipt of a written question.
4.0   FORM OF PROPOSAL:
      4.1  The proposal shall be submitted in the following manner. Failure to submit the
           proposal in the manner specified may result in a premature opening of, post-opening
           of, or failure to open and consider that proposal, and may, at the discretion of the
           Contract and Procurement Specialist, eliminate that proposer from consideration for
           award.

      4.2     Required Forms: All required forms furnished by as a part of the RFP document
              issued shall, as instructed, be fully completed and submitted by the proposer. Such
              forms may be completed in a legible hand-written fashion, by use of a typewriter, or
              may be downloaded and completed on a computer. If, during the download, a form
              becomes changed in any fashion, the proposer must “edit” the form back to its
              original form (for example, signature lines must appear on the page which the line
              was originally intended)

      4.3     Tabbed Proposal Submittal: intends to retain the successful proposer pursuant
              to a “Best Value” basis, not a “Low Bid” basis. Therefore, so that Progressive
              Housing Solutions Inc. can properly evaluate the proposals received, all proposals
              submitted in response to this RFP must be formatted in accordance with the
              sequence noted below. Each category must be separated by numbered index
              dividers and the number on the index divider must extend so that each tab can be
              located without opening the proposal and labeled with the corresponding tab
              reference noted below. None of the proposed services may conflict with any
              requirement Progressive Housing Solutions Inc. has published herein or has issued
              by addendum.

      All proposals submitted in response to this RFP shall be formatted in accordance
      with the sequence noted below (Tab 1 through Tab 4).

      4.3.1   Tab 1, Form of Proposal: This Form is attached hereto as (Attachment B) to
              this RFP document. This one-page Form must be fully completed, and submitted
              under this tab as a part of the proposal submittal. The proposed fee section of
              this form will be intentionally left blank in the proposal submittals.

      4.3.2   Tab 2, Proposal Fee Sheet: This Form is attached hereto as (Attachment C) to
              this RFP document. This one-page Form shall be fully completed, including
              acknowledgement of any addendum issued.

      4.3.3   Tab 3, Proposer’s Certification: This Form is attached hereto as (ATTACHMENT D)
                to this RFP document. This one-page Form must be fully completed, and submitted
               under this tab as a part of the proposal submittal. Where provided thereon and
               submitted under this tab as a part of the proposal submittal.

      4.3.4   Tab 4, Profile of Firm: (Attachment J) The proposer shall complete provide details
              of company.

      4.3.5    Tab 5, Vendor Registration: The Vendor Registration Form is attached hereto as
               (Attachment F) to this RFP document. This two-page Form must be fully
               completed, executed and submitted under this tab as a part of the proposal
               submittal by the Proposer and each subcontractor.

      4.3.5    Tab 6, Non-Collusive Affidavit: Attachment N) The proposer is required to confirm
               there was no collusion in their proposal.

5.0   PROPOSAL EVALUATION

      5.1     Proposal Opening Results: It is understood by all proposers/prospective proposers
              that the proposals are not publicly opened and the results will be a matter of public
              record. When Progressive Housing Solutions Inc. has concluded all evaluations, has
              chosen a final top-rated proposer, has completed the award and is ready to issue
              such results, shall notify the successful proposer.

              5.1.1 All proposal documents submitted by the proposers are generally a matter of
                    public record unless information is deemed to be proprietary.

       5.2      Evaluation: Each proposal submittal will be evaluated based upon the following
                information and criteria:

              5.2.1   Initial Evaluation-Responsiveness: Each proposal received will first be
                      evaluated for responsiveness (i.e., meeting the minimum requirements as
                      stated in the RFP).

              5.2.2   Evaluation-Responsibility: shall select a minimum of a three person panel,
                      using the criteria established below, to evaluate each of the proposals
                      submitted in response to this RFP to determine the proposer’s level of
                      responsibility. Progressive Housing Solutions Inc. will consider capabilities or
                      advantages that are clearly described in the proposal that may be confirmed
                      by oral presentations, site visits, demonstrations, and references contacted
                      by Progressive Housing Solutions Inc.. All proposals would be evaluated as
                      to their overall value to Progressive Housing Solutions Inc..

              5.2.3   Restrictions: All persons having familial (including in-laws) and/or
                      employment relationships (past or current) with principals and/or employees
                      of a proposer will be excluded from participation on Progressive Housing
                      Solutions Inc.’s evaluation panel. Similarly, all persons having ownership
                      interest in and/or contract with a proposer will be excluded from participation
                      on Progressive Housing Solutions Inc.’s evaluation panel.
               5.2.4   Evaluation Criteria: The evaluation panel will use the following criteria to
                       evaluate each proposal:

 NO.                                            CRITERIA DESCRIPTION

 1      10 points      Provide company’s years in business, employee experience and education,
                       and proof of required insurance.
 2      20 points      Provide evidence of company’s ability to perform the work including providing
                       traditional and bond financing.
 3      10 points      Points will be awarded to companies who are Minority Business Enterprises
                       or who subcontract 20% to MBE’s and who comply with Section 3 of the
                       Housing and Urban Development Act of 1969 by providing employment,
                       training, or contracting opportunities.
 4      60 points      Submit rates for housing development financing.


               5.2.5   Competitive Range: Once a competitive range is established from the
                       proposals submitted, Progressive Housing Solutions Inc. reserves the right
                       to require Proposers within the competitive range to make a presentation to
                       the evaluation committee. Presentations, if requested, shall be a factor in the
                       award recommendation.

5.3    Mistake in Proposal Submitted:

       5.3.1   Unless otherwise prohibited within the RFP documents, a mistake in the cost unit
               pricing that does not affect the total cost sum submitted may, at PHS Inc.’s
               discretion, be corrected by submitting a corrected cost form, together with a
               complete explanation in writing, of how the mistake occurred, to the Contract and
               Procurement Specialist, for review. This mistake must be corrected before the
               issuance of any contract documents. Such correction shall not operate to give any
               proposer an advantage over another.

5.4    Irregular Proposal Submittal: A proposal shall be considered irregular for any one of the
       following reasons, any one or more of which may, at Progressive Housing Solutions Inc.'s
       discretion, be reason for rejection:

       5.4.1   If the forms furnished by are not used or are altered or if the proposed costs are not
               submitted as required and where provided.
       5.4.2   If all requested completed attachments do not accompany the proposal submittal.
       5.4.3   If there are unauthorized additions, conditional or alternate proposals, or
               irregularities of any kind which may tend to make the proposal incomplete, indefinite
               or ambiguous as to its meaning or give the proposer submitting the same a
               competitive advantage over other proposers.
       5.4.4   If the proposer adds any provisions reserving the right to accept or reject any award
               or to enter into a contract pursuant to an award.
       5.4.5   If the individual cost proposal items submitted by a specific proposer are unbalanced
               in the sense that the listed price of any cost item departs by more than 25% from
               Progressive Housing Solutions Inc.’s cost estimate for that item.
 5.5   Disqualification of Proposers: Any one or more of the following shall be considered as
       sufficient for the disqualification of a prospective proposer and the rejection of his/her
       proposal:
       5.5.1   Evidence of collusion among prospective proposers. Participants in such collusion
               will receive no recognition as proposers or proposers for any future work with until
               such participant shall have been reinstated as a qualified bidder or proposer. The
               names of all participants in such collusion shall be reported to HUD and any other
               inquiring governmental agency.
       5.5.2   More than one proposal for the same work from an individual, firm, or corporation
               under the same or different name(s).
       5.5.3   Lack of competency, lack of experience and/or lack of adequate machinery and/or
               other resources.
       5.5.4   Unsatisfactory performance record as shown by past work for Progressive Housing
               Solutions Inc. or with any other local, state or federal agency, judged from the
               standpoint of workmanship and progress.
       5.5.5   Incomplete work, which in the judgment of Progressive Housing Solutions Inc., might
               hinder or prevent prompt completion of additional work, if awarded.
       5.5.6   Failure to pay or satisfactorily settle all bills due on former contracts still outstanding.
       5.5.7   Failure to comply with any qualification requirements of Progressive Housing
               Solutions Inc..
       5.5.8    As required by the RFP documents, failure of the successful proposer to be properly
               licensed by the City, County and/or the State of Ohio and/or to be insured by a
               commercial general liability policy and/or worker's compensation policy and/or
               business automobile liability policy, if applicable. If a proposer receives an award
               unless otherwise waived in the Contract, the Contractor will be required to provide
               an original Certificate of Insurance confirming the following minimum requirements
               to within 10 days of contract signature:
       5.5.9   Any reason to be determined in good faith, to be in the best interests of Progressive
               Housing Solutions Inc.
5.6    Award of Proposal(s): The successful proposer shall be determined by the top rated
       responsive and responsible proposer as determined by the evaluation process and
       presentations detailed above and any further negotiations, provided his/her proposal is
       reasonable and within budget, he/she is able to deliver the specified items in a timely
       manner and it is, in the opinion of , to the bests interests of to accept the proposal.
6.0    RIGHT TO PROTEST

      6.1     Rights: Any prospective or actual proposer, offeror, or contractor who is allegedly
              aggrieved in connection with the solicitation of a proposal or award of a contract, shall
              have the right to protest. Such right only applies to deviations from laws, rules,
              regulations, or procedures. Disagreements with the evaluators’ judgments as to the
              number of points scored are not reasons for an appeal. An alleged aggrieved
              protestant claiming this right is hereby informed that these regulations do not provide
              for administrative appeal as a matter of right for that alleged aggrieved protestant.

      6.1.1   An alleged aggrieved “protestant” is a prospective proposer or proposer who feels
              that he/she has been treated inequitably by Progressive Housing Solutions Inc. and
              wishes to correct the alleged inequitable condition or situation. To be eligible to file
              a protest with Progressive Housing Solutions Inc. pertaining to an RFP or contract,
              the alleged aggrieved protestant must have been involved in the RFP process in
              some manner as a prospective proposer (i.e. recipient of the RFP documents)
              when the alleged situation occurred. Progressive Housing Solutions Inc. has no
              obligation to consider a protest filed by any party that does not meet these criteria.

      6.1.2   Any actual or prospective contractor may protest the solicitation or award of a contract
              for material violation of Progressive Housing Solutions Inc.’s procurement policy. Any
              protest against a solicitation must be received before the due date for receipt of bids
              or proposals and any protest against the award of a contract must be received within
              ten calendar days after contract award or the protest will not be considered.

              All protests must be in writing and submitted to the Director of Planning &
              Development for a written decision. The Director of Planning & Development shall
              make a recommendation to the Contracting & Procurement Specialist who shall issue
              a written decision and findings to the Contractor within 30 days from receipt of the
              written protest. This decision is then appealable to the Board of Commissioners within
              30 days of receipt of the written decision. Appeals which are not timely filed will not
              be considered and the decision becomes final. All appeals shall be marked and sent
              to the address as listed in the example below:

                             APPEAL OF RFP # 10252019-PHS
                      ATTN: Procurement and Contracting Department
                           Progressive Housing Solutions, Inc.
                                400 E. Tuscarawas Street
                                   Canton, OH 44702


7.0   DISPUTES UNDER THE CONTRACT
7.1   Procedures: In addition to the procedures detailed within Form HUD-5370-C Section I and
      II, in the event that any matter, claim, or dispute arises between the parties, whether or not
      related to this RFP or any resulting contract, both parties shall be subject to nonbinding
      mediation if agreed to by both parties within thirty days of either party making a request in
      writing. The parties further agree that if the matter, claim or dispute is not settled during
      mediation, it shall thereafter be submitted to binding arbitration. The parties shall make a
      good faith attempt to mutually agree upon an arbitrator. If the parties cannot mutually agree
      upon an arbitrator after reasonable efforts have been exerted, then the matter, claim or
      dispute shall be submitted to the American Arbitration Association for final and binding
      arbitration. Unless extended by the arbitrator for good cause shown, the final arbitration
      hearing shall begin no later than two months after selection of the arbitrator.

8.0   ADDITIONAL CONSIDERATIONS
8.1   Escalation: This is a Firm Fixed Price Contract with no escalation provisions.

8.2    Official, Agent and Employees of the Not Personally Liable: It is agreed by and between
      the parties hereto that in no event shall any official, officer, employee, or agent      of
      Progressive Housing Solutions Inc. in any way be personally liable or responsible for any
      covenant or agreement herein contained whether expressed or implied, nor for any statement,
      representation or warranty made herein or in any connection with this agreement.

8.3   Salaries and Expenses Relating to the Successful Proposers Employees: Unless
      otherwise stated within the RFP documents, the successful proposer shall pay all salaries and
      expenses of, and all Federal, Social Security taxes, Federal and State Unemployment taxes,
      and any similar taxes relating to its employees used in the performance of the contract. The
      successful proposer further agrees to comply with all Federal, and State and all licensing laws
      applicable to its employees or other personnel furnished under this agreement.

8.4   Severability: If any provision of this agreement or any portion or provision hereof applicable
      to any particular situation or circumstance is held invalid, the remainder of this agreement or
      the remainder of such provision (as the case may be), and the application thereof to other
      situations or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.

8.5 Waiver of Breach: A waiver of either party of any terms or conditions of this agreement in any
    instance shall not be deemed or construed as a waiver of such term or condition for the future,
    or of any subsequent breach thereof. All remedies, rights, undertakings, obligations, and
    agreements contained in this agreement shall be cumulative and none of them shall be in
    limitation of any other remedy, right, obligation or agreement of either party.

8.6   Time of the Essence: Time is of the essence as to each provision in which a timeframe for
      performance is provided in this RFP. Failure to meet these timeframes may be considered a
      material breach, and may pursue compensatory and/or liquidated damages under the
      contract.

8.7   Limitation of Liability: In no event shall PHS, Inc. be liable to the successful proposer for
      any indirect, incidental, consequential or exemplary damages.

8.8    Termination: Any contract resulting from this RFP may be terminated under the following
      conditions:
        8.8.1     By mutual consent of both parties, and

        8.8.2      For Termination for Cause: Progressive Housing Solutions Inc. may terminate
                   any and all contracts for default at any time in whole or in part, if the contractor
                   fails to perform any of the provisions of any contract, so fails to pursue the work
                   as to endanger performance in accordance with the terms of the RFP or any
                   resulting contracts, and after receipt of written notice from Progressive Housing
                   Solutions Inc., fails to correct such failures within seven (7) days or such other
                   period as may authorize or require.

        8.8.2.1 Upon receipt of a notice of termination issued from Progressive Housing Solutions
                 Inc., the Contractor shall immediately cease all activities under any contract
                 resulting from this RFP, unless expressly directed otherwise by in the notice of
                 termination.

      8.8.2.1.1 Progressive Housing Solutions Inc. may terminate any contract resulting from this
                 RFP in whole or in part, if funding is reduced, or is not obtained and continued at
                 levels sufficient to allow for the expenditure.

      8.8.3      Termination for Convenience: In the sole discretion of the Contracting &
                  Procurement Specialist, Progressive Housing Solutions Inc. may terminate any and
                  all contracts resulting from this RFP in whole or part upon fourteen (14) days prior
                  notice to the Contractor when it is determined to be in the best interest of
                  Progressive Housing Solutions Inc.

      8.8.4       The rights and remedies of provided under this section are not exclusive and are
                  in addition to any other rights and remedies provided by law or under any contract.

8.9     Invoicing (If applicable):

       8.9.1 Contractor(s) will only be allowed to invoice for the cost of services/goods in compliance
              with his/ her proposal or best and final offer as accepted by and may not invoice until
              all work is completed and accepted by Progressive Housing Solutions Inc.

      8.9.2 Invoices must contain a complete description of the work or service that was performed,
              the contract price for each service, the purchase order number, date of service, and
              address of service location or delivery address.

      8.9.3     Upon the Award of Contract, Contractor shall receive a request from Progressive
                Housing Solutions Inc. to process all payments electronically to insure prompt and
                efficient payment of all invoices.

      8.9.4     Invoices shall be sent to the following address:
                                Progressive Housing Solutions, Inc.
                                         Finance Department
                                     400 E. Tuscarawas Street
                                          Canton, OH 44702
8.10   Right to data and Patent Rights: Progressive Housing Solutions Inc. shall have exclusive
       ownership of all, proprietary interest in, and the right to full and exclusive possession of all
       information, materials and documents discovered or produced by Contractor pursuant to the
       terms of any resulting contract, including but not limited to, reports, memoranda or letters

8.11   Public Law 90-284, Title VIII of the Civil Rights Act of 1968 and its Amendments (Fair
       Housing Act): Both parties agree to comply and prohibit any person from discriminating in
       the sale or rental of housing, the financing of housing or the provision of brokerage services,
       including in any way making unavailable or denying a dwelling to any person because of
       race, color, religion, sex or national origin. As a result, requires that the Contractor
       administer all programs and activities, which are related to housing and community
       development in such a manner as affirmatively to further fair housing.

8.12   Age Discrimination Act of 1975 and its amendments: Requires the Contractor to
       prohibit discrimination on the basis of age.

8.13   Anti-Drug Abuse Act of 1988 (42 U.S.C. 11901 et. seq.) and its amendments:
       requires Contractors to comply with this law.

8.14   Conflicting Conditions: In the even there is a conflict between the documents comprising
       this RFP and any resulting contracts, the following order of precedence shall govern: (1) the
       more restrictive terms of either: the term/conditions in the body of any resulting contract; (2)
       the RFP; and (3) Contractor’s Response..

8.15   Interpretations: No official oral interpretation can be made to any proposer as to the
       meaning of any instruction, condition, specifications, drawing (if any), or any other document
       issued pertaining to this RFP. Every request for an official interpretation shall be made by
       the prospective proposer, in writing at least seven (7) days prior to the submission deadline.
       Official interpretations will be issued in the form of addenda, which will be posted on
       www.starkmha.org; but it shall be the prospective proposer’s responsibility to make inquiry
       as to addenda issued. All such addenda shall become a part of the RFP documents and
       the proposed contract with the successful proposer and all proposers shall be bound by
       such addenda, whether or not received by the prospective or successful proposer(s).

8.16   Contract Form: PHS, Inc. will not execute a contract on the successful proposer’s form.
       Contracts will only be executed on Progressive Housing Solutions Inc.’s form. By submitting
       a proposal, the successful proposer agrees to this condition. However, Progressive Housing
       Solutions Inc. will consider any contract clauses that the proposer wishes to include therein,
       but the failure of PHS, Inc. to include such clauses does not give the successful proposer
       the right to refuse to execute Progressive Housing Solutions Inc.’s contract form. It is the
       responsibility of each prospective proposer to notify Progressive Housing Solutions Inc., in
       writing, with the proposal submittal of any contract clauses that he/she is not willing to
       include in the final executed contract. Progressive Housing Solutions Inc. will consider such
       clauses and determine whether or not to amend the Contract.
8.17   Immigration Reform: By submitting a proposal Contractor certifies compliance with the
       Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986 regarding employment verification and
       retention of verification forms for any individuals hired on or after November 6, 1986 who
       will perform any labor or services under any resulting contract.

8.18   Most Favored Customer: The Contractor agrees that if during the term of any resulting
       contract, the Contractor enters into any agreement with any other non-affiliated commercial
       customer by which it agrees to provide equivalent services at lower prices, or additional
       services at comparable prices, the resulting Contract will at Progressive Housing Solutions
       Inc.’s option, be amended to accord equivalent advantage to Progressive Housing Solutions
       Inc..

8.19   Fair Labor Standards Act: Both parties hereby agree to comply with the provisions of the
       Fair Labor Standards Act (29 U.S.C. 201, et seq).
            ATTACHMENT A: Scope of Work/Technical
                                      Specifications


PHS, INC. is looking to add the services of up to two qualified legal consultants/firms to assist the
agency in the following areas; asset repositioning, development and redevelopment activities
(including strategic planning, financing and regulatory requirements), potentially interdepartmental
projects.

The successful candidate will have a demonstrated track record in development and
redevelopment, expertise in public housing regulations and procedures (both state and federal),
Low Income Housing Tax Credit (LIHTC) program and state and federal historic tax credits, Rental
Assistance Demonstration program (RAD) and excellent written and verbal communication skills.
The consultant will be expected to provide the PHS, INC. staff with assistance on an as needed
basis for specific projects and tasks that could include some portion or all of the following:

       a. Advise PHS, INC. on local, state and federal statutory and regulatory matters,
          including but not limited to;
       b. Public housing, Federal and state procurement,
       c. Federal and state mixed finance and development,
       d. Housing Choice Voucher/Project Based Assistance,
       e. Moving to work and/or the demonstration programs
       f. Low-income housing tax credits and tax-exempt bonds,
       g. Advise PHS, INC. on specific developments and/or revitalization plans, and
          provide as requested guidance on ownership structure, management plan,
          capital financing and operating budgets to ensure that the project is in
          compliance with all applicable statutory, regulatory and/or administrative
          requirements.
       h. Advise PHS, INC. and structure the various entities and associated
          agreements(s) necessary to effectuate the PHS, Inc. plans, including but not
          limited to, the creation of the limited partnerships and/or limited liability
          corporations, affiliates and/or instrumentalities.
       i.   Advise PHS, INC. in negotiations with all consultants and funding agents,
            including, but not limited to, tax credit syndication structures, equity investors,
            bond underwriters, HUD and other public funders.
       j.   Advise and prepare all requests for waivers from local, state and federal
            statutory requirements as necessary.
     k. Advise the PHS, INC. on legal matters pertaining to Federal, State and local
        government, including housing, real estate, procurement and contractual
        issues;
                 i.    Initiation of unlawful detainer actions. PHS, INC. staff will
                       normally prepare the initial notices when the action is based on
                       unpaid rent.
                 ii.   Contested litigation (generally unlawful detainer)

l.   Review, modification and updating of legal documents used by PHS, INC. in the
     course of its business e.g. resolutions, leases, contracts, forms, policies, etc.
m. Civil rights and fair housing requirements, including claims involving violations of
   the Civil Rights Act of 1964, the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 and the Americans
   with Disabilities Act (ADA);
n. Advise PHS, INC. on all relevant federal and state mixed-finance requirement
   regulations, including review of applicability of state and federal procurement and
   construction laws and regulations.
o. Advise PHS, INC. on applicable zoning matters, including review of
   comprehensive permit applications.
p. Advise PHS, INC. on environmental due diligence, including review of applicable
   permit requirements.
q. Advise and assist PHS, INC. as bond counsel in financing of real estate
   acquisition and redevelopment projects.
r. If requested, coordinate and prepare all mixed-finance evidentiary and closing
   documents, including but not limited to review and negotiation of all senior and
   subordinate construction and permanent loan commitments (including short and
   long-term tax-exempt bond commitments) and equity investment commitments,
   review and negotiation of loan documents, title matters ad drafting of various
   opinions.
s. The PHS, INC. shall retain the right to have the successful proposer provide
   services in any matter that the PHS, Inc. believes the legal firm is qualified to
   provide and if, in the opinion of the Board, it is in the best interests of the PHS,
   Inc. to do so.
t. The successful proposer will only be providing work pertaining to legal issues
   commonly addressed by a legal counsel and the successful proposer will not be
   requested to provide any non-legal program work such as those commonly
   provided by professional services consulting firms.
u. As may be further detailed herein, the PHS, Inc. may, on an as-needed basis,
   require the successful proposer to provide services pertaining to PHS, Inc.-
   related matters within the following areas, each pertaining to applicable Federal,
   State and local regulations, statutes, laws and codes:
                i.    Human Resources;
               ii.    Accounting, Finance and related audits;
              iii.    Operations;
             iv.      Maintenance
               v.     Information Technology
             vi.      Housing Programs;
             vii.     U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD);
                      and
            viii.     Any other matter the PHS, Inc. needs services for.
v. Please note that the preceding is not intended to be an all-inclusive listing of all
   of the legal issues that the PHS, Inc. may remain the successful proposer to
   provide, but is intended to be a representative listing of issues that the PHS, Inc.
   has previously required such services for.

             i.      If the successful proposer does not have in-house a qualified
                     person to provide any services required by the PHS, Inc., the
                     successful proposer may retain another counsel who has such
                     qualified person. Such retention must have the prior written
                     approval of the PHS, Inc. Any billing/payment for such additional
                     counsel will be at the same hourly rate listed within the contract
                     (meaning, the successful proposer may not add-on an additional
                     amount to the contracted hourly fee for retaining and overseeing
                     such additional counsel). As the PHS, Inc. will contract with the
                     successful proposer only, all ensuing payments for any contracted
                     matter will be made by the PHS, Inc. to the successful proposer
                     only.

w. The PHS, Inc. reserves the right to , at any time during the ensuing contract
   period, and without penalty to the legal counsel retained as a result of this RFP,
   conduct additional competitive solicitations to retain additional legal counsel
   when, in the opinion of the Board, it is the best interests of the PHS, Inc.. to do
   so. Accordingly, the legal counsel retained as a result of this RFP shall have the
   right to also respond to any such additional solicitation process, if conducted.
ATTACHMENT B: Form of Proposal
                                  FORM OF PROPOSAL
                                              (Attachment B)
    (This Form must be fully completed and placed under Tab No. 1 of the “hard copy” tabbed proposal submittal.)
Instructions:    Unless otherwise specifically required, the items listed below must be
completed and included in the proposal submittal. Please complete this form by marking
an “X,” where provided, to verify that the referenced completed form or information has been
included within the “hard copy” proposal submittal submitted by the proposer. Also,
complete Proposer’s Statement as noted below. Submit one (1) unbound original and one
(1) electronic copy (either CD or flash drive) of the following documents:

      TAB                                                                                    RFP
X      #                        Documents Required in Submittal                          Attachment        Page #

       1      Form of Proposal                                                                 B             21

       2      Proposal Fee Sheet                                                               C             23

       3      Proposers Certification                                                          D             25

       4      Profile of Firm                                                                  E             27

       5      Vendor Registration Form and W-9                                                 F             28

       6      Non Collusive Affidavit                                                          G             34
ATTACHMENT C: PROPOSAL FEE SHEET
                      Proposal Fee Sheet
   Principal              Per Hour Rate
    Partner           $
Senior Associate      $
   Associate          $
   Paralegal          $



                     Addenda Acknowledgements


Addendum #1 __________________________Date_________________________


Addendum #2 __________________________Date_________________________


Addendum #3__________________________Date_________________________


Addendum #4__________________________Date_________________________




Company Name: ___________________________________________
Email: ____________________________________________________
Phone:____________________________________________________


Authorized Agent Signature:_____________________________ Date:_______
ATTACHMENT D: PROPOSER'S CERTIFICATION
                                             Proposer's Certification
                By signing below, Proposer certifies that the following statements are true and correct:

 1. He/she has full authority to bind Proposer and that no member of Proposer’s organization is disbarred, suspended or
    otherwise prohibited from contracting with any federal, state or local agency,

 2. Items for which Proposer's were provided herein will be delivered as specified in the RFP,

 3. In performing this contract, the contractor(s) shall comply with any and all applicable federal, state or local laws
    including but not limited to: Occupational Safety & Health, Equal Employment Opportunity, Immigration and
    Naturalization, The Americans with Disabilities Act, State Tax and Insurance Law, and the Fair Housing Act.,

 4. Proposer agrees that this RFP submittal shall remain open and valid for at least a period of 90 days from the date of the
    RFP Opening and that this R F P s u b m i t t a l shall constitute an offer, which, if accepted by a n d subject to the terms
    and conditions of such acceptance, shall result in a contract between and the undersigned Proposer,

 5. He/she has not given, offered to give, nor intends to give at any time hereafter any economic opportunity, future
    employment, gift, loan, gratuity, special discount, trip, favor, or service to a public servant in connection with this RFP.

 6. Proposer, nor the firm, corporation, partnership, or institution represented by the Proposer, or anyone acting for such
    firm, corporation or institution has violated the antitrust laws of the State of Ohio or the Federal Antitrust laws, nor
    communicated directly or indirectly the proposal made to any competitor or any other person engaged in such line
    of business,

 7. Proposer has not received compensation for participation in the preparation of the specifications for this RFP,

 8. Non-Collusive Affidavit: The undersigned party submitting this Pr opos er hereby certifies that such subm ittal is
    genuine and not collusive and that said Proposer has not colluded, conspired, connived or agreed, directly or indirectly,
    with any P r o p o s e r or person, to put in a sham p r o p o s a l or to refrain from bidding, and has not in any manner,
    directly or indirectly sought by agreement or collusion, or communication or conference, with any person, to fix the
    proposal price of affiant or of any other Proposer, to fix overhead, profit or cost element of said proposal price, or that
    of any other Proposer or to secure any advantage against or any person interested in the proposed contract; and
    that all statements in said proposal are true.

 9. He/she has full authority to bind Proposer and that no member of Proposer’s organization is disbarred, suspended or
    otherwise prohibited from contracting with any federal, state or local agency, and the individual or business entity named
    in this proposal is eligible to receive the specified payment and acknowledges that this Contract may be terminated and
    payment may be withheld if this certification is inaccurate.

10. Lobbying Prohibition: The P r o p o s e r agrees to comply with Section 1352 of Title 31, United States Code which
    prohibits the use of Federal appropriated funds to pay any person for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or
    employee of any agency, a Member of Congress, and officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a Member
    of Congress in connection with any of the following covered Federal actions: the awarding of any Federal contract; the
    making of any Federal grant; the making of any Federal loan; the entering into of any cooperative agreement; or
    the modification of any Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement.

  SIGNED:       ______________________________            PRINT NAME: ____________________________________

  ___________________________________________________________________________________
  (Print Company Name) (Company Phone & Fax & Email Address)

  _______________________ (Seal if by Corporation)                                           Date:________________
ATTACHMENT E: PROFILE OF FIRM
ATTACHMENT F: VENDOR REGISTRATION FORM
ATTACHMENT G: NON COLLUSIVE AFFADAVIT
                        Non-Collusive Affidavit

State of ______________________________________
County of ____________________________________
_____________________________________________, being first duly sworn, deposes
and states:

That he/she is _______________________________________
(a partner or officer of the firm etc.)

The party making the foregoing proposal, that such proposal is genuine and not collusive
or sham, that said Respondent has not colluded, conspired, connived or agreed, directly or
indirectly, with any person, to put in a sham proposal or to refrain from proposing and has
not in any manner directly or indirectly, sought by agreement or collusion, or communication
or conference, with any person, to fix the proposed price, or that of any Respondent, or to
secure any advantage against:

                       Stark County Metropolitan Housing Authority

or, any person interested in the proposed contract, and that all statements in said
proposal are true.


Signature: ________________________________________________________
Respondent, if Respondent is an individual
Partner, if the Respondent is a partnership
Officer, if the Respondent is a corporation
