                                  TACOMA POWER
                          UTILITY TECHNOLOGY SERVICES

                            REQUEST FOR PROPOSALS

                      PROJECT AND PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT
                     SOFTWARE SOLUTION AND IMPLEMENTATION

                          SPECIFICATION NO. PI19-0101F




Form No. SPEC-010C
                                                City of Tacoma
                     Tacoma Public Utilities / Tacoma Power Utility Technology Services

                                  REQUEST FOR PROPOSALS PI19-0101F
                  Project and Portfolio Management Software Solution and Implementation
Submittal Deadline: 11:00 a.m., Pacific Time, Tuesday, October 15, 2019
Submittal Delivery: Sealed submittals will be received as follows:
 By Carrier:                                       In Person:
 City of Tacoma Procurement & Payables Division    City of Tacoma Procurement & Payables Division
 Tacoma Public Utilities                           Tacoma Public Utilities Lobby Security Desk
 3628 S 35th Street                                Administration Building North – Main Floor
 Tacoma, WA 98409                                  3628 S 35th Street
                                                   Tacoma, WA 98409
 By Mail:
 City of Tacoma Procurement & Payables Division
 Tacoma Public Utilities
 PO Box 11007
 Tacoma, WA 98411-0007

Submittal Opening: Sealed submittals in response to a RFB will be opened by a Purchasing
representative and read aloud during a public bid opening held in Conference Room M-1, located on
the main floor of Administration Building North. Submittals in response to an RFP, RFQ, or RFI are
recorded as received, but are not typically opened and read aloud. As soon as possible after 1:00
p.m. the day of bid opening, the names of vendors submitting proposals are posted to the website
for public viewing.
Solicitation Documents: An electronic copy of the complete solicitation documents may be
viewed and obtained by accessing the City of Tacoma Purchasing website at
www.TacomaPurchasing.org.
    •   Register for the Bid Holders List to receive notices of addenda, questions and answers and
        related updates.
    •   Click here to see a list of vendors registered for this solicitation.
Pre-Proposal Meeting: A pre-proposal meeting will not be held.
Project Scope: Automated and scalable Project and Portfolio Management Software-as-a-Service
solution to support project, program, and portfolio management using a phased implementation
approach.
Estimate: $250,000
Paid Leave and Minimum Wage: Effective February 1, 2016, the City of Tacoma requires all
employers to provide paid leave and minimum wages, as set forth in Title 18 of the Tacoma
Municipal Code. For more information visit www.cityoftacoma.org/employmentstandards.
Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA Information: The City of Tacoma, in accordance with
Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act (Section 504) and the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA),
commits to nondiscrimination on the basis of disability, in all of its programs and activities.
Specification materials can be made available in an alternate format by emailing Gail Himes at
ghimes@cityoftacoma.org, or by calling her collect at 253-591-5785.
The following is applicable to Federal Aid Projects:
The City of Tacoma in accordance with Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, 78 Stat. 252, 42
U.S.C. 2000d to 2000d-4 and Title 49, Code of Federal Regulations, Department of Transportation,
subtitle A, Office of the Secretary, part 21, nondiscrimination in federally assisted programs of the
Department of Transportation issued pursuant to such Act, hereby notifies all bidders that it will
affirmatively ensure that in any contract entered into pursuant to this advertisement, disadvantaged
business enterprises as defined at 49 CFR, part 26, will be afforded full opportunity to submit bids

Form No. SPEC-040C                                                              Revised: 08/07/2019
PI19-0101F                                                                              Page 1 of 99
in response to this invitation and will not be discriminated against on the grounds of race, color,
national origin, or sex in consideration for an award.
Additional Information: Requests for information regarding the specifications may be obtained by
contacting Seth Hartz, senior buyer, by email to shartz@cityoftacoma.org.
Protest Policy: City of Tacoma protest policy, located at www.tacomapurchasing.org, specifies
procedures for protests submitted prior to and after submittal deadline.
       Meeting sites are accessible to persons with disabilities. Reasonable accommodations for persons with
       disabilities can be arranged with 48 hours advance notice by calling 253-502-8468.




Form No. SPEC-040C                                                                     Revised: 08/07/2019
PI19-0101F                                                                                     Page 2 of 99
                                   Table of Contents

Request for Proposals

Table of Contents

Submittal Checklist

SECTION 1 – PROJECT OVERVIEW / CALENDAR / INQUIRIES
  1.01 Project Overview and Purpose
  1.02 Calendar of RFP Events
  1.03 Pre-Submittal Conference / Questions and Requests for Clarification
  1.04 Acceptance and Responsiveness
  1.05 Contract Term
  1.06 Pricing
  1.07 Budget
  1.08 Respondents Originating Outside the United States
  1.09 Revisions to RFP – Addenda
  1.10 Federal Aid Projects
  1.11 City Contact Information

SECTION 2 – PROJECT SCOPE / TECHNICAL PROVISIONS
  2.01 Project Overview
  2.02 Deliverables / Acceptance Criteria
  2.03 High Level Project Schedule
  2.04 Desired Qualifications
  2.05 Insurance
  2.06 Technical Provisions (See Appendix D)

SECTION 3 – SUBMITTAL FORMAT, CONTENT, EVALUATION, AWARD
  3.01 Format and Presentation
  3.02 Content to be Submitted
  3.03 Evaluation Criteria
  3.04 Interviews / Oral Presentations / Demonstrations
  3.05 Award

APPENDIX A
  • Signature Page
  • Prime Contractor’s Pre-Work Form
  • Price Proposal Form
  • Technical Requirements Response Form
  • License Requirements Response Form
  • Security Requirements Response Form

APPENDIX B
  • Sample Contract
  • Standard Certificate of Insurance and Endorsement Requirements

APPENDIX C
  • Standard Terms and Conditions
  • Small Business Enterprise (SBE) Program

APPENDIX D
  • Technical Provisions


PI19-0101F                                                                   Page 3 of 99
SUBMITTAL CHECK LIST

    A. This checklist identifies items to be included with your submittal. Any
       submittal received without these required items may be deemed non-
       responsive and may not be considered for award.

    B. Submittals must be sealed in an envelope or package labeled with the
       specification number, specification title, and Respondent name and address.

    C. Sealed submittals must be received by the City of Tacoma Purchasing
       Division by the date and time specified in the Request for Proposals page at
       the front of this Specification or subsequent addenda.

    D. Respondents are encouraged to use recycled/recyclable products and both
       sides of paper for printed and photocopied materials, wherever possible.

    E.   Please do not include the full RFP document as part of
         your submittal. Doing so may render your submittal
         non-responsive.

   The following items, in this order, make up your submittal package:
   Other than the forms listed below, please do not include other pages or content from
   this RFP document.

   1     Title Page (Section 3.02.1)

   2     Table of Contents (Section 3.02.2)

   3     Index of confidential information, if applicable (Section 3.02.3)

         City of Tacoma Forms (Section 3.02.4 / Appendix A) – No substitutions or
         alterations – Do not alter these forms or add them to letterhead paper or present
         cover letters or blank pages ahead of them.
     A. Signature Page (this form is intended to serve as the first page of your
   4    submittal after the Title Page and Table of Contents)
     B. Prime Contractor’s Pre-Work Form
     C. Price Proposal Form
     D. Technical Requirements Response Form
     E. License Requirements Response Form
     F. Security Requirements Response Form

         Balance of information in Section 3.02 – Content to be Submitted (items 3.02.5
   5
         – 3.02.13)




PI19-0101F                                                                                   Page 4 of 99
   Provide the following in a sealed envelope or package as indicated above
   in Submittal Check List item C.:
   Paper Copies:
    One original copy of your complete submittal, arranged as indicated in Sections 3.01 and
     3.02.
    Seven copies of the complete original submittal.

       Clearly identify paper documents as original and copies.
   Electronic Copies (USB drive, labeled with company name):
    One electronic copy of the complete submittal in either Word or PDF format, arranged as
     indicated in Sections 3.01 and 3.02. Provide the electronic copy as a single file rather than
     multiple individual documents.
    One electronic copy of the completed Price Proposal Form in Excel format.
    One electronic copy of the completed Technical Requirements Response Form in Excel
     format.
    One electronic copy of the completed License Requirements Response Form in Excel
     format.
    One electronic copy of the completed Security Requirements Response Form in
     Excel format.
   NOTE: There should be FIVE documents on the USB drive.


                             DELIVERY OPTIONS:
                                           By Carrier:
                            City of Tacoma Procurement & Payables Division
                                         Tacoma Public Utilities
                                            3628 S 35th St
                                          Tacoma WA 98409

                                          By U.S. Mail:
                            City of Tacoma Procurement & Payables Division
                                         Tacoma Public Utilities
                                            PO Box 11007
                                        Tacoma WA 98411-0007

                                            In Person:
                              Tacoma Public Utilities Lobby Security Desk
                               Administration Building North – Main Floor
                                             3628 S 35th St
                                          Tacoma WA 98409




PI19-0101F                                                                             Page 5 of 99
   After award approval, the following will be required:
       Contract (Appendix B)
   1
       Contract incorporating terms and conditions contained herein

   2   Certificate of Insurance and applicable endorsements (Appendix B)

       City of Tacoma business license, if applicable (Appendix C – See item 1.05 B. of the
   3
       Standard Terms and Conditions)

       Verification of Washington business license (Appendix C – See item 1.05 A. of the
   4
       Standard Terms and Conditions)




PI19-0101F                                                                            Page 6 of 99
                             REQUEST FOR PROPOSALS PI19-0101F
               Project and Portfolio Management Software Solution and Implementation

SECTION 1 – PROJECT OVERVIEW / CALENDAR / INQUIRIES

1.01         PROJECT OVERVIEW AND PURPOSE

1.01.1       Tacoma Public Utilities (TPU), Tacoma Power, Utility Technology Services is soliciting
             proposals to establish one or more contracts with qualified vendors to fulfill the Utility’s
             need for an automated and scalable Project and Portfolio Management Software-as-a-
             Service solution on an as-needed basis for up to five years, to include software and
             implementation services.

1.01.2       The preference is to award a single contract. However, the City reserves the right to
             split the award, reduce the award, or make no award, if it is in the City’s best interest.

1.01.3       Submittals must comply with these specifications. Failure to comply with all provisions
             of the RFP may result in disqualification.

1.01.4       This solicitation may be found at www.tacomapurchasing.org: Navigate to Contracting
             Opportunities / Services Solicitations, scroll to this RFP and click the word
             Specification.

1.02         CALENDAR OF RFP EVENTS

1.02.1       The anticipated schedule of events concerning this RFP, which are tentative and may
             be altered at the City’s sole discretion, is as follows:

   Questions due, 3:00 p.m., Pacific Time                                September 26, 2019
   Questions and answers posted on or about                              October 3, 2019
   Submittal deadline, 11:00 a.m., Pacific Time                          October 15, 2019
   Interviews/presentations/demonstrations, if conducted                 Week of November 4, 2019
   Public Utility Board consideration of award, if required              December, 2019

1.03         PRE-SUBMITTAL CONFERENCE / QUESTIONS AND REQUESTS FOR
             CLARIFICATION

1.03.1       A pre-submittal conference will not be held; however, questions and requests for
             clarification of these Specifications may be submitted in writing by 3:00 p.m., Pacific
             Time, September 26, 2019, to Seth Hartz, Purchasing Division, via email to
             shartz@cityoftacoma.org. Questions received after this date and time may not be
             answered.

             A. Please indicate the RFP specification number and title in the email subject line.

             B. Present your questions in MS Word format or directly in the body of the email
                message. Where applicable, cross reference the specific section of the RFP.
                Please avoid using tables to format the questions.




PI19-0101F                                                                                     Page 7 of 99
                1. The questions will be copied into a Word template; please keep the formatting
                   simple (e.g., Arial 11, flush left) by avoiding multiple fonts, multiple formats, and
                   the use of tables, styles, headers, footers, etc.

             C. Questions will not be accepted by telephone or fax.

             D. Questions marked confidential will not be answered.

             E. Questions will be held until the deadline and answered collectively.

             F. Individual answers will not be provided directly to Respondents.

             G. The City reserves the discretion to group similar questions to provide a single
                answer or not to respond when the requested information is confidential.

             H. The City will not be responsible for unsuccessful submittal of questions.

1.03.2       Written answers to questions will be posted with the Specification on or about
             October 3, 2019, on the Purchasing website at www.TacomaPurchasing.org:
             Navigate to Contracting Opportunities / Services Solicitations, and scroll to this RFP.
             A notice will not be posted with the Specification if no questions are received.

1.03.3       To receive notice of the posted answers, you must register as a “bid holder” for this
             solicitation. Notices will not be sent if no questions are received.

1.03.4       The answers are not typically considered an addendum. (See Section 1.09)

1.04         ACCEPTANCE AND RESPONSIVENESS

1.04.1       Respondents agree to provide a minimum of 90 days from the submittal deadline for
             acceptance by the City.

1.04.2       Submittals will be reviewed by the City to determine compliance with the requirements
             and instructions specified in this RFP. Respondent is specifically notified that failure to
             comply with any part of this RFP may result in rejection of the submittal as non-
             responsive. The City reserves the right, in its sole discretion, to waive irregularities
             deemed to be immaterial.

1.05         CONTRACT TERM

1.05.1       The Contract will be for a two-year period with the option to renew the Contract for
             three additional one-year terms.

             The Contract will purchase software-as-a-service and implementation services to
             include design, implementation, testing, plus warranty services for at least 60 days.

1.05.2       Ongoing subscription fees beyond the two years will be per final negotiated Contract
             terms.

1.05.3       This Contract shall remain open to additional purchases (interlocal, tag-on, and
             piggyback) by this or other agencies for the full Contract term.




PI19-0101F                                                                                     Page 8 of 99
1.06         PRICING

1.06.1       Pricing under any Contract resulting from this RFP shall be firm for the Contract period
             unless an adjustment is mandated by statute.

1.06.2       Submitted prices must include all labor and expenses, including travel, licenses,
             permits, B&O taxes, and any tools or costs required to service the account and
             complete this project.

1.06.3       Surcharges of any type will not be paid.

1.06.4       The City reserves the right to negotiate all costs/prices submitted.

1.06.5       The City may award to other than the highest ranked Respondent if the price offered
             by Respondent is more than the budget available for this project.

1.06.6       Contractor shall extend the same services at City prices to participating public
             agencies in accordance with the Interlocal Agreement.

1.07         BUDGET

1.07.1       The amount budgeted for this project is $250,000.

1.07.2       Submittals over the budgeted amount may receive reduced or zero points for “Fees
             and Charges / Value” in the Section 3.03 Evaluation Criteria or be dropped from
             consideration.

1.08         RESPONDENTS ORIGINATING OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES

1.08.1       Respondents providing submittals from outside the legal jurisdiction of the United
             States of America will be subject to Tacoma’s City Attorney’s Office (CAO) opinion as
             to the viability of possible litigation pursuant to a contract resulting from this
             Specification. If it is the opinion of the CAO that any possible litigation would be
             beyond reasonable cost and/or enforcement, the submittal may be excluded from
             evaluation.

1.09         REVISIONS TO RFP – ADDENDA

1.09.1       In the event it becomes necessary to revise any part of this RFP, addenda will be
             issued to registered bid holders/planholders and posted on the Purchasing website at
             www.TacomaPurchasing.org: Navigate to Contracting Opportunities / Services
             Solicitations, and scroll to this RFP. Failure to acknowledge addenda may result in a
             submittal being deemed non-responsive.

1.09.2       Answers in response to RFP inquiries are not typically provided as an addendum. (See
             Section 1.03)




PI19-0101F                                                                                  Page 9 of 99
1.10         FEDERAL AID PROJECTS

1.10.1       The following is applicable to federal aid projects:

             The City of Tacoma in accordance with Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, 78 Stat.
             252, 42 U.S.C. 2000d to 2000d-4 and Title 49, Code of Federal Regulations,
             Department of Transportation, subtitle A, Office of the Secretary, part 21,
             nondiscrimination in federally assisted programs of the Department of Transportation
             issued pursuant to such Act, hereby notifies all bidders that it will affirmatively insure
             that in any contract entered into pursuant to this advertisement, disadvantaged
             business enterprises as defined at 49 CFR, part 26, will be afforded full opportunity to
             submit bids in response to this invitation and will not be discriminated against on the
             grounds of race, color, national origin, or sex in consideration for an award.

1.11         CITY CONTACT INFORMATION

1.11.1       All communications concerning this solicitation shall be directed via email to the
             Purchasing contact:
                   Seth Hartz / shartz@cityoftacoma.org

1.11.2       Any Respondent seeking to obtain information, clarification, or interpretations from a
             City official or City employee other than the Purchasing contact or other Purchasing
             staff member, or any external firm or agency, is advised that such material is used at
             Respondent’s own risk. The City will not be bound by any such information,
             clarification, or interpretation.

1.11.3       Contact by a Respondent regarding this solicitation with a City employee other than
             the Purchasing contact or other Purchasing staff member, or an individual approved in
             writing by a Purchasing staff member, or contact with a firm hired by the City to provide
             consulting services regarding this RFP, may be grounds for rejection of Respondent’s
             submittal.

1.11.4       NOTE: City employees and persons or firms representing the City will not contact you
             or seek to advise you on matters pertaining to this RFP, your submittal, or the City’s
             expectations regarding the proposed work other than as stated in the Request for
             Proposals documents.




PI19-0101F                                                                                   Page 10 of 99
SECTION 2 – PROJECT SCOPE / TECHNICAL PROVISIONS

2.01         PROJECT OVERVIEW

2.01.1       Tacoma Public Utilities currently manages a mix of technology related and
             construction related projects through multiple Project Management Offices
             (PMOs). Currently, there is no centralized solution where project information
             (scope, schedule, budget, resources, risks and issues, change control, etc.) can
             be accessed, reviewed and analyzed by stakeholders. The current solution
             consists of various excel-based toolsets, disparate templates (Microsoft Project,
             Word, Excel and Visio) and a document repository using SharePoint and MS
             Explorer folder hierarchies.

2.01.2       TPU seeks a software-as-a-service solution to support project, program, and
             portfolio management that uses a phased implementation approach. Initial
             access will be to a couple organizational business units, with the ability to grow
             the solution to additional organizational business units, along with the option to
             integrate to existing solutions after initial deployment and acceptance. The
             tangible deliverables include but are not limited to:

             A. A project management solution to manage technology-related projects that can be
                scaled up to an enterprise solution to be used to manage all of the utilities projects
                within the various PMOs embedded within the various City business units.

                1. The solution should be flexible to support various project management
                   methodologies (Waterfall, Agile and Lean) depending upon the project’s needs.

                2. The solution should be versatile to manage projects from information
                   technology to brick and mortar construction projects.

                3. The comprehensive project management solution will also effectively manage
                   (according to industry best practices) the following:
                   • Project lifecycle (from intake to closeout);
                   • Project resource capacity allocations and demand;
                   • Project budgets;
                   • Project risks and issues;
                   • Project change control and management;
                   • Project communications and stakeholder engagement.

             B. A centralized solution for program management.

             C. A centralized solution for enterprise portfolio management that will enable the
                utility’s various PMOs to predict, plan, evaluate, and prioritize the portfolio(s) to
                achieve the highest value and align with the organization’s strategic goals and
                objectives.

             D. A solution that is easy to use and compels users to stay within the solution’s
                environment as opposed to finding workarounds outside the solution in order to
                satisfy its requirements.




PI19-0101F                                                                                    Page 11 of 99
2.02         DELIVERABLES/ACCEPTANCE CRITERIA

             Contractor will be responsible for the design, configuration, deployment, including any
             integrations, data conversion/migration, acceptance testing, training, and go-live
             activities of the solution in accordance with requirements listed below in this Appendix.
             This includes all licenses and warranties, along with all technical and business process
             documentation associated with the solution.

2.03         HIGH LEVEL PROJECT SCHEDULE

             TPU is seeking options for a phased implementation approach that provides for
             integration services with existing solutions to be performed outside of the anticipated
             schedule below. The high-level project schedule does not reflect durations for
             performance of these activities. The anticipated schedule may shift due to any delays
             in execution and approvals of contracts.

             Description                                                 Anticipated Schedule
             Project Kickoff                                             December 2019
             Design                                                      December 2019
             Implementation, including migration of data                 January 2020
             Testing and User Acceptance                                 February 2020
             Training, Technical/Business Process Documentation          February 2020
             Report Development                                          February 2020

2.04         DESIRED QUALIFICATIONS

             Experience implementing more than three large implementations of proposed solution
             meeting TPU’s requirements, preferably in electrical/gas utility or governmental
             environments, in the last three years.

2.05         INSURANCE

2.05.1       City of Tacoma standard insurance requirements apply (Appendix B.).

2.05.2       Respondents are encouraged to furnish requirements to their surety for review prior to
             providing a submittal.

2.05.3       Failure by City to identify a deficiency in the insurance documentation provided by
             Contractor or failure of City to demand verification of coverage or compliance by
             Contractor with these insurance requirements shall not be construed as a waiver of
             Contractor’s obligation to maintain such insurance.

2.06         TECHNICAL PROVISIONS

             See Appendix D.




PI19-0101F                                                                                 Page 12 of 99
SECTION 3 – SUBMITTAL FORMAT, CONTENT, EVALUATION, AWARD

3.01     FORMAT AND PRESENTATION

3.01.1       Submittals should be clear, be succinct, and not exceed 20 double-sided pages (40
             pages total), excluding Title Page and required City of Tacoma forms.

             A. Pages beyond this limit, including appendices, attachments, brochures, etc., may
                not be reviewed or evaluated. Use of appendices and attachments will count
                toward the page total.

3.01.2       The inclusion of standard company brochures or similar marketing materials is
             discouraged and will not be evaluated, and may not be used in lieu of providing
             responses to Section 3.02 Content to be Submitted immediately below.

3.01.3       A full and complete response to each of the “content to be submitted” items (Section
             3.02) is expected in a single location; do not use hyperlinks to other documents or
             cross reference to another section of your submittal document in lieu of a full
             response.

3.01.4       Required format:

         •    Page size:            8.5” x 11” (no pages larger or smaller than this size)
         •    Margins:              0.75” or greater
         •    Font and size:        Arial 10 (or equivalent) or larger
         •    Numbered pages:       Please number all pages in your submittal documents

3.01.5       For purposes of review and in the interest of the City's sustainable business practices,
             Respondents are encouraged to print/copy on both sides of a single sheet of
             paper wherever possible. The City encourages the use of materials (e.g., paper,
             dividers, binders, brochures, etc.) that contain post-consumer recycled content and are
             readily recyclable.

3.01.6       The City prefers the use of recyclable 3-ring binders to allow reviewers to remove
             specific pages/sections. Please do not use gum or spiral bindings. The use of
             materials that cannot be easily recycled such as PVC (vinyl) binders, spiral bindings,
             glossy paper, and plastic or glossy covers or dividers is discouraged.

3.01.7       Color is acceptable, but content should not be lost by black-and-white printing or
             copying.

3.01.8       Submittal organization, completeness, structure, and readability will be evaluated.
             (See Section 3.03.8)

3.02     CONTENT TO BE SUBMITTED

Provide complete and detailed responses to all items using the numbering format presented
below. Organization of the submittal should follow the sequence of contents below so that
essential information can be located easily during evaluation.




PI19-0101F                                                                                 Page 13 of 99
Submittals that are incomplete or conditioned in any way, contain alternatives or items not
called for in this RFP, or are not in conformity with law, may be rejected. The City will not accept
any submittal containing a substantial deviation from the requirements outlined in this RFP.

3.02.1       Title Page

             A. The Title Page is to be a single sheet of paper and is not counted toward the page
                total. (See Section 3.01.1) Include the following on the Title Page:

                1. RFP number and title
                2. Firm name, address, website address, telephone number, and email address
                3. Name, title, email address, and telephone number of the person to contact with
                   questions or issues regarding your proposal/submittal.
                4. NOTE: Notifications regarding award will be sent to the email address
                   provided on the Signature Page.

3.02.2       Table of Contents

             A. Identify information included in your submittal by section as described in Section
                3.02.

3.02.3       CONFIDENTIAL OR PROPRIETARY INFORMATION

              A. Information that is confidential or proprietary must be clearly marked on each
                 affected page.

              B. Further, an index must be provided indicating the affected page number(s) and
                 location(s) of all such identified material. Information not included in said index
                 will not be reviewed for confidentiality or as proprietary before release.
                 (Appendix C – See item 1.06 of the Standard Terms and Conditions)

              C.   Marking the entire submittal as “confidential” or
                   “proprietary” or “trade secret” is not acceptable and is
                   grounds to reject such submittal.
3.02.4       City of Tacoma Forms (Appendix A)

             A. Do not alter these forms in any way or add them to letterhead paper or present
                cover letters or blank pages ahead of them. These forms do not count toward the
                page total. (See Section 3.01.1)

                1. Signature Page - The Signature Page must be signed by a person authorized
                   to make proposals and enter into contract negotiations on behalf of your
                   agency. This individual must be at least 18 years of age.

                2. Prime Contractor’s Pre-Work Form

                3. Price Proposal Form

                4. Technical Requirements Response Form




PI19-0101F                                                                                  Page 14 of 99
                   5. License Requirements Response Form

                  6. Security Requirements Response Form

3.02.5       Executive Summary

             A. Introduction and overview of your submittal/proposal.

             B. A description and explanation of your underlying philosophy in fulfilling this scope
                of work.

             C. A short history and description of your firm, including organizational structure,
                areas/regions served, number of employees, number of years in business under
                current and previous names, including DBAs (doing business as), etc.

             D. Background information of the parent company, if any.

             E. Location of the office from which this work will be performed.

             F. Documentation of corporate status and business licenses.

             G. Name, title, email address, and telephone number of the person authorized to
                execute a contract on behalf of Respondent.

             H. Name, title, email address, and telephone number of the person who will be
                managing this Contract on behalf of Respondent.

             I.   Disclose any affiliations or alliances that are in place with utility companies,
                  software organizations, or other related firms.

             J. List any current or known forthcoming business ventures or related transactions
                such as proposed sale of company, buy-outs, acquisitions, mergers, new investors,
                etc., that may impact the business partner relationship with the City of Tacoma.

             K. Disclose involvement in any business litigation in the past five years, including
                whether your firm has, for legal reasons, been removed from a contract or failed to
                complete a contract as assigned.

             L. Provide a statement regarding your firm’s financial fitness for successfully
                completing this work. Disclose any past, planned, or anticipated bankruptcy filings
                or proceedings.

             M. Disclose any intention to utilize subcontractors to perform this work, and if so,
                provide similar information as listed above for identified subcontractors. Include
                any certified City of Tacoma Small Business Enterprise and/or minority/woman
                owned firm certified with the Washington State Office of Minority and Women’s
                Business Enterprises.




PI19-0101F                                                                                     Page 15 of 99
3.02.6       Qualifications/Experience of Firm

             A. Describe your firm’s background, qualifications, and relevant experience as related
                to this Scope of work. Include work that involves public agencies.

             B. Describe your firm’s background, qualifications, and relevant experience
                integrating Microsoft Project functionality with your proposed solution.

             C. Describe your firm’s background, qualifications, and relevant experience
                integrating Microsoft Excel functionality with your proposed solution for the
                purposes of importing and exporting data.

             D. Describe your firm’s background, qualifications, and relevant experience
                integrating Microsoft SharePoint functionality with your proposed solution for the
                purposes of a document repository.

             E. Describe your firm’s background, qualifications, and relevant experience
                integrating your proposed solution with agile tools such as JIRA.

             F. Describe your firm’s background, qualifications and relevant experience integrating
                your proposed solution with SAP (ERP System) for the purposes of
                importing/exporting financials, accounting, timecard data and employee data

             G. Describe your firm’s background, qualifications, and relevant experience
                integrating your proposed solution with Microsoft Outlook.

             H. Describe your firm’s background, qualifications, and relevant experience
                integrating your proposed solution with Microsoft Active Directory.

             I.   Describe your firm’s background, qualifications, and experience integrating your
                  proposed solution with resource planning solutions, e.g., ProSymmetry Tempus.

             J. Provide additional information that will enable the City to evaluate the capabilities,
                track record, and financial stability of your firm. (Optional)

3.02.7       Qualifications/Experience of Key Personnel Assigned to this Project

             The personnel presented must be committed to this project for the expected term of
             the Contract.

             A. List key personnel that will manage and work this project including the relevant
                background and experience of each staff member you propose to assign to this
                project.

                  1. Include a brief biography or resume outlining the experience of each person
                     that will be involved in this Scope of Work.
                  2. Indicate the role(s) each individual will be assigned and the relative amounts of
                     time that will be allocated. For example, clearly identify those that will be
                     directly involved in managing the work vs those who would act as a support
                     resource.




PI19-0101F                                                                                   Page 16 of 99
             B. Describe how these staff will work as a team to accomplish this scope of work.

             C. How many projects have this team worked on together?

             D. Describe the projects, including the staffing structure and dates, where the
                proposed staff previously worked as a team.

             E. Describe when, where, and for how long this team previously worked together. For
                example, specific projects, length of project, etc.

             F. Describe the experience, education, and training of each person in performing
                project, program and portfolio configuration and implementation work for municipal
                governments and/or utility organizations.

3.02.8       Approach and Methodology

             A. Describe which method of service delivery your firm proposes, e.g.,
                onsite/offsite/hybrid. If your proposed method of delivery is offsite or hybrid, explain
                in detail how that delivery method will be efficient, productive and ultimately a
                successful delivery model for this project.

             B. Describe your proposed project plan.

             C. Describe the quality assurance procedures used by your firm.

             D. Describe the City resources and level of effort for each resource that you require to
                complete the project plan tasks related to project, program and portfolio solution
                configuration and implementation services.

             E. Provide a roles and responsibility assignment (RACI) matrix.

             F. Provide a proposed schedule for completing the project to include data conversion,
                system planning, design, testing, training, and go-live.

             G. Describe how your proposed solution meets the criteria listed below. Clarify how
                integrations are carried out (e.g., public APIs) and whether the integration is
                directly supported or partner-supported (third-party). Note: APIs should provide
                substantial access to all data elements, both native and custom.
                1. Support for various project methodologies (Waterfall, SCRUM, Kanban, Lean,
                    Six Sigma).
                2. Support for construction (brick and mortar) versus information technology type
                    project environments.
                3. Potential future expansion of solution to other City business units utilizing their
                    own unique templates, processes, and workflows.
                4. Integration with Microsoft Project.
                5. Integration with Microsoft Excel.
                6. Integration with Microsoft SharePoint.
                7. Future integration with agile tools (e.g., JIRA).
                8. Future integration with SAP.
                9. Future integrations with Microsoft Outlook.
                10. Future integration with Microsoft Active Directory.




PI19-0101F                                                                                   Page 17 of 99
                  11. Future integration with ProSymmetry Tempus.

             H. Provide the approach and process for migrating and converting data from existing
                data sources to the proposed solution.

             I.   Provide the approach and process for developing and configuring any reporting
                  that is not considered out-of-the-box.

             J. Please indicate if there is a sandbox environment where changes can be tested
                before moving over to a production environment and whether this environment
                remains available after implementation go-live for future changes.

             K. Provide options for on-going technical support after implementation go-live.

             L. Provide the approach for implementing version upgrades to the software-as-a-
                service environment.
                1. Describe impacts to solution access during version upgrades.
                2. Provide schedule of future planned version upgrades.

             M. Provide the approach and training plan for users of the solution (project managers,
                program managers, portfolio managers, system administrators and other
                stakeholders (team members, sponsors, executive governance).

3.02.9       Additional Technical Information / Requirements

             A. Provide the high-level processes and screenshots (if available) relating to
                customization or reconfiguration of standard workflow processes.

             B. Provide the scalability limits for the number of projects, tasks, and resources that
                the proposed solution supports.

             C. Provide the help desk support model for customer and technical support.

3.02.10 Fees and Charges / Value

             A. Provide the total cost to complete this work using the Price Proposal Form.
                (Appendix A).

3.02.11 Small Business Enterprise (SBE) / Minority and Women’s Business Enterprises
        (MWBE)

             A. Indicate whether your firm is a certified City of Tacoma Small Business Enterprise.

             B. Indicate whether your firm will be partnering with, or subcontracting to, a certified
                 City of Tacoma Small Business Enterprise. If yes, provide the full legal name of the
                 SBE.

             C. Indicate whether your firm is a minority/woman owned firm certified with the
                 Washington State Office of Minority and Women’s Business Enterprises.




PI19-0101F                                                                                  Page 18 of 99
             D. Indicate whether your firm will be partnering with, or subcontracting to, a
                 minority/woman owned firm certified with the Washington State Office of Minority
                 and Women’s Business Enterprises. If yes, provide the full legal name of the
                 MWBE.

3.02.12 References

             A. Provide three or more recent client references able to verify your firm’s overall
                expertise for this scope of work. Include public agencies and utilities, as
                applicable. The clients should have worked with your firm within the last three
                years. For each reference provide the following information:

                1.   Company name and description of primary business
                2.   Website address, if applicable
                3.   Contact person(s) and title
                4.   Address
                5.   Phone number
                6.   Email address
                7.   Project description or description of services provided
                8.   Dates of service

3.02.13 EPayables Acceptance – Credit Card Acceptance – EFT/ACH Acceptance

             A. EPayables (Payment Plus)

                Provide a statement regarding your ability to accept payment by ePayables
                (Payment Plus). This is payment made via a virtual, single use VISA card number
                provided by the City’s commercial card provider. This information is not a
                consideration in the evaluation. (Appendix C – See item 1.41 of the Standard
                Terms and Conditions)

             B. Credit Card Acceptance

                Provide a statement regarding your ability to meet the City’s credit card
                requirements as well as identifying your reporting capabilities (Level I, II, or III).
                This information is not a consideration in the evaluation. (Appendix C – See item
                1.41 of the Standard Terms and Conditions)

             C. Electronic Funds Transfer (EFT) by Automated Clearing House (ACH) Acceptance

                Provide a statement regarding your ability to accept payment by electronic funds
                transfer (EFT) by Automated Clearing House (ACH). This information is not a
                consideration in the evaluation. (Appendix C – See item 1.41 of the Standard
                Terms and Conditions)




PI19-0101F                                                                                    Page 19 of 99
3.03         EVALUATION CRITERIA

3.03.1       A Selection Advisory Committee (SAC) will review and evaluate the submittals.
             Additionally, the SAC may conduct interviews of, or request presentations-
             demonstrations by, selected or short-listed Respondents before final selection is
             made. (See Section 3.04)

3.03.2       The SAC may use references to clarify and verify information in submittals and
             interviews, if conducted, which may affect the rating. The City reserves the right to
             contact references other than those included in the submittal.

3.03.3       The City may award to other than the highest ranked submittal or Respondent if the
             price submitted is more than generally accepted industry standards or the budget
             available for this project. Also, note that the inclusion of fees and charges as an
             evaluation factor or a request for hourly rates does not require the City to select the
             Respondent submitting the lowest cost.

3.03.4       Respondents may be asked to provide their most recent audited financial statements
             demonstrating Respondent’s financial ability to meet the requirements of any Contract
             that may result from this RFP.

3.03.5       An incomplete response or no response may result in a score of zero for that criterion.

3.03.6       A serious deficiency in any one criterion, including excessive cost or costs over the
             budgeted amount, may be grounds for rejection.

3.03.7       The final selection will be that submittal or Respondent which, after review and
             potential on-site visits, interviews/presentations/demonstrations, reference checks, and
             best and final offers (BAFO), if requested, in the sole judgment of the City, best meets
             the requirements set forth in this RFP.

3.03.8   Submittals will be evaluated using the following criteria:
          Criteria                                                                             Points
       A  Security Design Standards / Cloud Service Provider Declared
                                                                                                 P/F
          Designation (Security Requirements Response Form in Appendix A)
       B       Qualifications/Experience of Firm (3.02.5 and 3.02.6) and Key
                                                                                                  10
               Personnel (3.02.7)
       C       Approach and Methodology (3.02.8)                                                  25
       D       Technical Information (3.02.9 and Technical Response Form in
                                                                                                  35
               Appendix A)
       E       Cost (3.02.10 and Price Proposal From in Appendix A)                               20




PI19-0101F                                                                                   Page 20 of 99
       F       Small Business Enterprise (SBE) / Minority and Women’s Business
               Enterprise (MWBE) (3.02.11)
                a) Respondent is a City of Tacoma certified SBE firm.
                b) Respondent is partnering with a qualified City of Tacoma certified
                   SBE firm.                                                                        5
                c) Respondent is a certified state of Washington Minority and Women’s
                   Business Enterprise.
                d) Respondent is partnering with a certified state of Washington
                   Minority and Women’s Business Enterprise.
       G       Submittal Quality, Organization, Completeness
                a) Presentation of information is logical and clear.
                b) Completeness of proposal content.                                                5
                c) Adherence to format and layout requirements.
                d) Compliance with Specifications.



       The City reserves the right to reject any submittal if the
           security standards set by the City are not met.

3.04         INTERVIEWS / ORAL PRESENTATIONS / DEMONSTRATIONS

3.04.1       An invitation to interview, present, or provide a demonstration, either in person at a
             City facility or by conference call or video conference (Skype or similar application),
             may be extended to selected or short-listed Respondents based on Selection Advisory
             Committee review of the written submittals.

3.04.2       If held, it is anticipated that interviews/presentations/demonstrations would comprise
             no more than one day and be evaluated in a manner similar to the submittal.
             Instructions will be provided to selected Respondents.

3.04.3       All information, whether oral or written or otherwise, provided by Respondent in
             interviews/presentations/demonstrations may be incorporated into any resulting
             contract.

3.04.4       Interviews/presentations/demonstrations may be filmed and recorded, and
             incorporated into any resulting contract.

3.04.5       The SAC reserves the right to adjust scoring based on additional information and/or
             clarifications obtained during, or resulting from, interviews, presentations,
             demonstrations, or references. The SAC may determine scoring criteria for the
             interviews following evaluation of written submittals, including the option to rank (1, 2,
             3, etc.) rather than score.

3.04.6       The City reserves all rights to begin contract negotiations without conducting
             interviews, presentations, or demonstrations.




PI19-0101F                                                                                    Page 21 of 99
3.04.7       Respondents must be available for interviews/presentations/demonstrations within five
             business days’ notice.

3.05         AWARD

3.05.1       After a Respondent(s) is selected by the SAC and prior to award, all Respondents will
             be notified in writing by the Purchasing Division.

3.05.2       Once a finalist (or finalists) has been selected by the Selection Advisory Committee,
             contract negotiations will begin. If a Contract is successfully negotiated, it will, if
             required, be submitted for final approval by the Public Utility Board and/or City Council.
             If an agreement cannot be reached, negotiations will be terminated and negotiations
             will be conducted with the next highest scored Respondent and so on, until an
             agreement is reached, or until the City exercises its right to cancel the solicitation.




PI19-0101F                                                                                  Page 22 of 99
                                          APPENDIX A


                                         Signature Page


                               Prime Contractor’s Pre-Work Form


                                       Price Proposal Form
For the electronic copy of this form, use the link posted with this Specification or the link below:
   http://cms.cityoftacoma.org/Purchasing/FormalBids/PI19-0101F_PriceProposalForm.xlsx


                             Technical Requirements Response Form
For the electronic copy of this form, use the link posted with this Specification or the link below:
                    http://cms.cityoftacoma.org/Purchasing/FormalBids/PI19-
                       0101F_TechnicalRequirementsResponseForm.xlsx


                             License Requirements Response Form
For the electronic copy of this form, use the link posted with this Specification or the link below:
                    http://cms.cityoftacoma.org/Purchasing/FormalBids/PI19-
                        0101F_LicenseRequirementsResponseForm.xlsx


                             Security Requirements Response Form
For the electronic copy of this form, use the link posted with this Specification or the link below:
                    http://cms.cityoftacoma.org/Purchasing/FormalBids/PI19-
                        0101F_SecurityRequirementsResponseForm.xlsx




PI19-0101F                                                                                Page 23 of 99
                                                      SIGNATURE PAGE

                                   CITY OF TACOMA / TACOMA PUBLIC UTILITIES
                                 TACOMA POWER UTILITY TECHNOLOGY SERVICES
    All submittals must be in ink or typewritten and must be executed by a duly authorized officer or
    representative of the bidding/proposing entity. If the bidder/proposer is a subsidiary or doing business
    on behalf of another entity, so state, and provide the firm name under which business is hereby
    transacted.

    Submittals will be received and time stamped only at the City of Tacoma Procurement & Payables
    Division, located in the Tacoma Public Utilities Administration Building North, 4th Floor, at 3628 South
    35th Street, Tacoma, WA 98409. See the Request for Proposals page near the beginning of the
    specification for additional details.

                       REQUEST FOR PROPOSALS SPECIFICATION NO. PI19-0101F
                  Project and Portfolio Management Software Solution and Implementation

    The undersigned bidder/proposer hereby agrees to execute the proposed contract and furnish all
    materials, labor, tools, equipment and all other facilities and services in accordance with these
    specifications.

    The bidder/proposer agrees, by submitting a bid/proposal under these specifications, that in the event
    any litigation should arise concerning the submission of bids/proposals or the award of contract under
    this specification, Request for Bids, Request for Proposals or Request for Qualifications, the venue of
    such action or litigation shall be in the Superior Court of the State of Washington, in and for the County
    of Pierce.

                                                    Non-Collusion Declaration
    The undersigned bidder/proposer hereby certifies under penalty of perjury that this bid/proposal is
    genuine and not a sham or collusive bid/proposal, or made in the interests or on behalf of any person or
    entity not herein named; and that said bidder/proposer has not directly or indirectly induced or solicited
    any contractor or supplier on the above work to put in a sham bid/proposal or any person or entity to
    refrain from submitting a bid/proposal; and that said bidder/proposer has not, in any manner, sought by
    collusion to secure to itself an advantage over any other contractor(s) or person(s).


 Bidder/Proposer’s Registered Name                               Signature of Person Authorized to Enter                    Date
                                                                 into Contracts for Bidder/Proposer

 Address
                                                                 Printed Name and Title

 City, State, Zip
                                                                 (Area Code) Telephone Number / Fax Number

 E-Mail Address
                                                                 State Business License Number
                                                                 in WA, also known as UBI (Unified Business Identifier) Number
 E.I.No. / Federal Social Security Number Used on Quarterly
 Federal Tax Return, U.S. Treasury Dept. Form 941
                                                                 State Contractor’s License Number
                                                                 (See Ch. 18.27, R.C.W.)



Addendum acknowledgement #1_____ #2_____ #3_____ #4_____ #5_____
                  THIS PAGE MUST BE SIGNED AND RETURNED WITH SUBMITTAL.


    Form No. SPEC-080A
    Revised: 06/27/18
     PI19-0101F                                                                                                   Page 24 of 99
                         City of Tacoma
                         Community & Economic Development
                         Office of Small Business Enterprise
                         747 Market Street, Room 808
                         Tacoma, WA 98402
                         253-594-7933 or 253-591-5224

                                                                            PRIME CONTRACTOR'S PRE-WORK FORM

______________________________________________________________________________
Company Name                                                                                            Telephone


Address/City/State/Zip Code


Specification Number                                  Specification Title

        JOB CATEGORIES                 TOTAL          TOTAL               BLACK         ASIAN or PACIFIC     AMERICAN             HISPANIC
            SPECIFY                  EMPLOYEES       MINORITY                              ISLANDER           INDIAN or
                                                    EMPLOYEES                                              ALASKAN NATIVE
                                      M         F   M       F         M           F        M        F        M         F        M           F
 Officer / Managers
 Supervisors
 Project Managers
 Office / Clerical




 Apprentices
 Trainees
                  TOTALS


CONTRACTOR'S PROJECTED WORK FORCE - THIS PROJECT
 Superintendent
 Foreman
 Operators
 Laborers




 Apprentice
 Trainee
                  TOTALS




Type or Print Name of Responsible Officer / Title           Signature of Responsible Officer                                  Date




CCD/SBE/FORMS revised May 2017
               PI19-0101F                                                                                                   Page 25 of 99
                            INSTRUCTIONS FOR COMPLETING
                         PRIME CONTRACTOR’S PRE-WORK FORM

  This form only applies to employees who will be working on this specific project.

1. "Heading" the company name and address should reflect the prime contractor actually doing
   business with the City of Tacoma. If this address is different from that of the Equal
   Employment Opportunity Officer that administers the EEO programs of the company, the Equal
   Employment Opportunity Officer's address should be noted in the "Comments" section at the
   bottom of the form. "Telephone" should contain the area code, telephone number and
   extension (if any) for the Equal Employment Officer or the responsible official.

2. "Job Categories" at the extreme left hand column of the form specifying "Job Categories" lists
   "Officials & Managers." You are to list in addition to Officials & Managers any appropriate job
   titles such as Sales Workers, Office/Clerical, Professionals, Technical, etc., as they apply to
   your own company and only as pertains to this specific project.

3. The "M" and "F" headings at the top of each column refer to "Male" and "Female."

4. The "Total Employees" column should list the total number of male employees under "M" and
   the total female number of female employees under "F" for each job category listed. They
   should be listed in a similar manner in the "Total" category at the bottom of the form. The
   "Total Employees" column should include all those employees listed under "Non-Minority" and
   "Total Minorities." "Non-Minority" should include all employees not listed in the minority
   columns.

5. "Total Minorities" should include all employees listed under the "Black," "Asian or Pacific
   Islander” (A person having origins in any of the original peoples of the Far East, Southeast
   Asia, the Indian subcontinent, or the Pacific Islands. This area includes, for example, China,
   India, Japan, Korea, the Philippine Islands, and Samoa.), "American Indian or Alaskan Native,"
   and "Hispanic" columns. These columns should include only employees who are members of
   that particular minority group. Designation and definitions of ethnic/national origin status follow
   the instructions and definitions of the Federal EEO-1 Form of the U. S. Equal Employment
   Opportunity Commission.

6. "Totals" this line should reflect the total of all lines in each of the above columns.

7. The signature of your company's designated responsible official or similar official responsible
   for equal employment opportunity must appear in the designated space at the bottom of the
   form. Please PRINT OR TYPE the person's name on the top line across from the signature.
   This is required since some signatures are difficult to read.

8. "Comments" this section is to be used as needed for explanations to under utilization rate or
   lack of turnover, proposed expansion or reduction of staff or any other pertinent information you
   believe will help clarify or explain the data presented on the form. If you need additional space,
   please explain on a separate sheet of paper.

9. If you need assistance or have questions regarding the completion of this form, please call the
   SBE Office at 253-594-7933 or 253-591-5224.




CCD/SBE/FORMS revised May 2017
 PI19-0101F                                                                                 Page 26 of 99
                                                             Request for Proposals PI19-0101F
                                            Project and Portfolio Management Software Solution Implementation

                                                                 * PRICE PROPOSAL FORM *
                                                               Must be included with your submittal

Respondent Name:

The City seeks a firm fixed price proposal. All prices are to be in U.S. dollars and include all associated fees. The City will not pay for any additional fees, tariffs, add-ons,
or surcharges.

REQUIRED SERVICES
Use the table below to detail the pricing for the services described in your proposal (section 3.02). Standard services have been detailed below; ensure to cost out other
required services not noted in the below table that are required to implement solution. Travel and expenses are limited to actual costs. The SAC will be correlating this
table to your proposal, so making the comparison process simple is to your advantage. Note: Payment schedules may be negotiated.
#       Service Description                                                                                                                                             Fixed Fee
    1   Design/Blueprinting
    2   Implementation
    3   Technical and Business Documentation
    4   Data Migration/Conversion
    4   Report/Dashboard Development
    5   Training
    6   Testing and Acceptance
    7   Travel and Expenses
                                                                                                                 Required Services Fixed Fee Subtotal: $                      -
CUSTOMIZATION/INTEGRATION/THIRD-PARTY SERVICES
Use the table below to detail the pricing for the services described in your proposal (section 3.02) specifically those services with a response of Options 1, 2 or 3 on
Appendix A, Technical Provisions, Technical Response Form. Additional fees for Third-party Products should also be listed. The SAC will be correlating this table to your
proposal, so making the comparison process simple is to your advantage. Note: Payment schedules may be negotiated.

        Reqt ID    Service Description                                                                                                                                  Fixed Fee




                                                                                 Customization/Integration/Third-Party Services Fixed Fee Subtotal: $                         -
SOFTWARE

Respondent shall use the table below to detail the software/subscription pricing for the solution proposed. A table of the anticipated quantities by license user type is
provided for reference in Exhibit D. Responses for closest appropriate license should be included in Appendix A, License Requirements Response Form and the total
costs for the licenses transmitted to the below table. Ensure to include license fees for any third-party products necessary for the implementation (if applicable). The SAC
will correlate this table to the your proposal - so making the comparison process simple is to your advantage. Note: payment schedules may be negotiated.
INITIAL TWO-YEAR TERM - REQUIRED Software Licenses/Subscription Fees/Third-Party Products
#    Description                                                                                         Qty.       Unit Cost                                     Extended Cost
   1
   2
   3
   4
   5
                          INITIAL TWO-YEAR TERM - REQUIRED Software Licenses/Subscription Fees/Third-Party Products Subtotal: $                                               -

INITIAL TWO YEAR TERM - OPTIONAL Software Licenses/Subscription Fees/Third-Party Products
#    Description                                                                                         Qty.       Unit Cost                                     Extended Cost
   1
   2
   3
   4
   5
                          INITIAL TWO YEAR TERM - OPTIONAL Software Licenses/Subscription Fees/Third-Party Products Subtotal: $                                               -

                                                                                                         Total Fixed Fees for Implementation Services:
                                                                        Total Costs for Software Licenses/Sunscription Fees/Third-Party Products:
                                                                                                                        Applicable Sales Tax (______%):
                                                                      Total Fixed Fees/Costs for Implementation Services and Software: $                                      -

Prompt Payment Discount %                                                                                                          days, net 30.
Payment discount periods of 20 calendar days or more will be considered in award.




         PI19-0101F                                                                                                                                       Page 27 of 99
List the annual renewal pricing for years 3, 4 and 5 below for both required and optional (if applicable) software licenses/subscription fees/third-party products.
ANNUAL RENEWAL (Year 3) - REQUIRED Software Licenses/Subscription Fees/Third-Party Products
#   Description                                                                                                                    Qty.         Unit Cost      Extended Cost
  1
  2
  3
  4
  5
ANNUAL RENEWAL (Year 4) - REQUIRED Software Licenses/Subscription Fees/Third-Party Products
#   Description                                                                                                                    Qty.         Unit Cost      Extended Cost
  1
  2
  3
  4
  5
ANNUAL RENEWAL (Year 5) - REQUIRED Software Licenses/Subscription Fees/Third-Party Products
#   Description                                                                                                                    Qty.         Unit Cost      Extended Cost
  1
  2
  3
  4
  5
ANNUAL RENEWAL (Year 3) - OPTIONAL Software Licenses/Subscription Fees/Third-Party Products
#   Description                                                                                                                    Qty.         Unit Cost      Extended Cost
  1
  2
  3
  4
  5
ANNUAL RENEWAL (Year 4) - OPTIONAL Software Licenses/Subscription Fees/Third-Party Products
#   Description                                                                                                                    Qty.         Unit Cost      Extended Cost
  1
  2
  3
  4
  5
ANNUAL RENEWAL (Year 5) - OPTIONAL Software Licenses/Subscription Fees/Third-Party Products
#   Description                                                                                                                    Qty.         Unit Cost      Extended Cost
  1
  2
  3
  4
  5




      PI19-0101F                                                                                                                                        Page 28 of 99
                                                                                     Request for Proposals PI19-0101F
                                                                    Project and Portfolio Management Software Solution Implementation

                                                                                       Technical Requirements Response Form
                                                                                        Must be included with your submittal

Respondent Name:

       Reference Appendix D for guidance on how to respond.



Reqt.                                                                                                                                            Option
ID    Functionality                                                 Description                                                                  Response Comments        Costs
Pipeline Management
01.    Product allows for standardized, automated project           Document proposal authoring and repository, business case creation,
       request collection of multiple types (e.g., ideas,           filtering. Preference is to automate standard or default workflow
       proposals, work requests, projects) with corresponding       processes for the major components of project portfolio management
       data, content, standardized templates and business           based on acknowledged best practices.
       rules.

02.    Product supports the capability to select different          Product has the capability to choose from different templates based on
       workflows, templates, drop-down data, reporting              the specific intake categorization, and/or workflow selected.
       requirements based on project categorization of various
       categories such as project type, or configurable domain.


03.    Product has the capability to designate and track status     Through the use of timelines, charts, calendars, status indicators.
       of each proposal or current project.

04.    Product provides ability to standardize and capture
       approvals in the tool, throughout the life cycle of the
       project. Configurable based on project type.
                                                                    Total Score                                                                     0
                                                                    Total Possible Score                                                            0
                                                                    Standardized Score (normalized to range 0-5)                                  #DIV/0!
Portfolio Management and Strategy Planning
05.    Product provides the ability to align proposals/projects     Through the use of flags, fields, categories, portfolios.
       with business objectives and organizational strategies.


06.    Product has the ability to group projects into programs      One to many or many to many.
       and group projects and/or programs into portfolios.

07.    Product has the ability to support multiple portfolios,      Ability to create/customize project groups (programs) and/or portfolios
       programs and projects based on configurable domains,         (which could be groups of programs or projects) to be used for tracking
       with unique workflows, templates and processes.              purposes. Example, Tacoma Rail, Tacoma Water, Tacoma Power; IT
                                                                    projects vs. Construction projects.

08.    Product has the capability to rank or prioritize projects,   Includes business criteria as well as technical criteria, or even "social"
       programs and proposals on one or more sets of criteria.      criteria to help enable prioritization.


09.    Ability to add/manage project intra- and inter-              Ability to add or link dependencies between tasks and projects.
       dependencies.




      PI19-0101F                                                                                                                                                     Page 29 of 99
                                                                                    Request for Proposals PI19-0101F
                                                                   Project and Portfolio Management Software Solution Implementation

                                                                                      Technical Requirements Response Form
                                                                                       Must be included with your submittal

Respondent Name:

       Reference Appendix D for guidance on how to respond.



Reqt.                                                                                                                                           Option
ID    Functionality                                                Description                                                                  Response Comments        Costs
10.    Allow current projects, programs and proposals to be        Ability to provide high-level scenario alternatives to support decision
       flexibly and dynamically grouped to perform “what-if”       making. For example, modeled scenarios should display impacts to
       modeling scenario analysis.                                 budget, schedule, resources, etc.
11.    Display the current health and status of proposals and/or Out-of-the box, customizable and configurable, and user-defined
       projects and programs in the portfolio to analyze the      metrics through the dashboards, red/amber/green indicators, pie charts,
       value, cost, risk, and business alignment of the “what-if” bar charts, graphs, Gantts.
       scenario, to inform the target audience.

12.    Product allows modeling of incoming demand against
       capacity and existing portfolio demand.

13.    Product has the ability to do resource
       leveling/optimization and "what-if" analysis.

                                                                   Total Score                                                                     0
                                                                   Total Possible Score                                                            0
                                                                   Standardized Score (normalized to range 0-5)                                  #DIV/0!
Project and Time Management
14.    Product provides support for industry-recognized project    Methodologies include Waterfall, SCRUM, Kanban, Lean, Six Sigma.
       methodologies.                                              Please indicate if abilities to use the various methodologies are included
                                                                   in one tool or if separate modules/components are required.


15.    Product supports project scheduling capabilities to         Project scheduling options, including full critical path. Include Gantt
       accommodate phases, sub-phases, phase gates, tasks          and/or PERT charts.
       and milestones ("schedule elements").
16.    Product allows approval gates or phase gates to be          Ability to show the approval and/or phase gates, and shows the links of
       configured as project milestones.                           the documents required or available for that phase.

17.    Product has the capability to provide for status indicators Each project status can be configured and set to customer configuration
       that can be flagged automatically based on data.            requirements. Status indicators names are flexible (e.g.: scope, quality).


18.    Product includes a Quality Assurance component.


19.    Product includes a Requirements Traceability Matrix         Ability to manage requirements.
       component or similar functionality.

20.    Product includes a Test Management Plan component.


21.    Product includes a Defect Management component.




      PI19-0101F                                                                                                                                                    Page 30 of 99
                                                                                     Request for Proposals PI19-0101F
                                                                    Project and Portfolio Management Software Solution Implementation

                                                                                       Technical Requirements Response Form
                                                                                        Must be included with your submittal

Respondent Name:

       Reference Appendix D for guidance on how to respond.



Reqt.                                                                                                                                            Option
ID    Functionality                                                 Description                                                                  Response Comments        Costs
22.    Product supports project/program budgeting, actuals and Ability to define and modify project cost estimates, actual expenditures
       forecasting.                                            and forecasts via direct input or integration.
23.    Product has the capability for the creation and         Ability to define and then modify the tasks needed to be carried out, at a
       maintenance of organizational work breakdown structure. range of granularity.

24.    Product has the capability to allow time to be planned by Resource loading on a project-related schedule.
       resource against schedule elements.

25.    Product allows tracking of time to a project and/or task.    Where detailed task or time tracking is not needed, progress can be
                                                                    entered at a high level only.

26.    Product displays resource capacity and availability.


27.    Product has the ability to allocate role- and name-based     For example, assign a functional role, rather than a named person to a
       resources to projects/tasks.                                 project and vice-versa.

28.    Ability to assign and schedule resources by skill set,       Allows named individuals or flexible groupings of similarly skilled people
       availability and other criteria.                             (e.g., "competent JEE developer").

                                                                    Total Score                                                                     0
                                                                    Total Possible Score                                                            0
                                                                    Standardized Score (normalized to range 0-5)                                  #DIV/0!
Risk/Issue and Change Management
29.    Product provides integrated project/program/portfolio risk
       and issue analysis and management functionality.

30.    Product utilizes a risk register to capture risk             Uses common elements e.g.: Risk Description, Risk Trigger,
       management status.                                           Probability, Impact, Score, Ownership, Treatment, Residual Risk,
                                                                    Secondary Risk, Accepted Probability, Accepted Impact. Please
                                                                    provide screenshots of sample risk register(s).
31.    Product allows each project to be scored against multiple Qualitative, Quantitative, Discrete Probabilities, Continuous Probability
       and "weighted" risk criteria to achieve a total weighted  Distribution, Relative Risk. Please provide sample of the product's
       risk score for the project, program and/or portfolio.     Probability and Impact Matrix.


32.    Product provides integrated project change management
       functionality.

                                                                    Total Score                                                                     0
                                                                    Total Possible Score                                                            0
                                                                    Standardized Score (normalized to range 0-5)                                  #DIV/0!




      PI19-0101F                                                                                                                                                     Page 31 of 99
                                                                                     Request for Proposals PI19-0101F
                                                                    Project and Portfolio Management Software Solution Implementation

                                                                                       Technical Requirements Response Form
                                                                                        Must be included with your submittal

Respondent Name:

       Reference Appendix D for guidance on how to respond.



Reqt.                                                                                                                                           Option
ID    Functionality                                                 Description                                                                 Response Comments        Costs
Reporting
33.    Product supports real-time drill-down and roll-up analysis   Summarizes the status of a filterable list of project(s) for Scope,
       with graphical views of dynamically selected groupings       Schedule, Financial data, Quality/Defects, Risk/Issues, task
       for Project, Program and Portfolio-level management          dependencies, change control, resource demand/capacity, benefits
       dashboards.                                                  progress/realization, strategic/objective alignment. Please provide
                                                                    screenshots of sample reports including dashboards.

34.    Product provides for project/program/portfolio Gantt         Summarizes visually a filterable list of projects, programs, portfolios.
       reporting.                                                   Report should also include start and end dates (planned and baseline),
                                                                    percentage complete. Ideally should be able to visually display
                                                                    baselines, project milestones and project dependencies. Please provide
                                                                    screenshots of sample reports.

35.    Product provides for built-in financial metrics — NPV,       Net present value, Earned Value Management, Return on Investment.
       EVM, ROI.
36.    Ability to provide project outcome performance               For example, to support project payback/ROI calculations or benefits
       monitoring/reporting.                                        tracking. Please provide screenshots of sample reports including
                                                                    dashboards.
37.    Out-of-the box, customizable and configurable, and user- Please provide a list of the system-provided metrics and if custom
       defined metrics through the dashboards,                  metrics are available, what the process is to define and configure user-
       red/amber/green indicators, pie charts, bar charts,      specified metrics.
       graphs, Gantts, budgeting, accounting, forecasting,
       projected versus actual expense.
38.    Product supports financial planning and tracking using
       various financial periods, budget account types, cost
       codes, and other budgeting factors.
39.    Product provides for resource capacity and demand            Dashboards, drill-down, heat maps, etc. Summarizes the demand and
       summary reporting.                                           available capacity of a filtered list of resources across a
                                                                    program/portfolio of projects and operational commitments. Should be
                                                                    able to display the data in configurable time periods. Report should also
                                                                    include time tracked data. Please provide screenshots of sample
                                                                    reports including dashboards, heat maps, etc.


40.    Product provides for project status reporting.               Summarizes the status of the projects including Key Project Data.
                                                                    Flexibility to include customer driven report design
                                                                    functionality providing the capability to configure and design reports
                                                                    based on requirements.

41.    Product allows for annotative notes to be collected, per     For example, when analyzing at budget information, product has ability
       project, per topic.                                          to capture notes on variance, and can be seen by project team. Provide
                                                                    screenshots of how this shows up in reporting.




      PI19-0101F                                                                                                                                                    Page 32 of 99
                                                                                     Request for Proposals PI19-0101F
                                                                    Project and Portfolio Management Software Solution Implementation

                                                                                       Technical Requirements Response Form
                                                                                        Must be included with your submittal

Respondent Name:

       Reference Appendix D for guidance on how to respond.



Reqt.                                                                                                                                           Option
ID    Functionality                                                 Description                                                                 Response Comments        Costs
42.    Product provides standard set of "out of the box" reports    Please provide screenshots of sample reports including dashboards.
       in standard formats (e.g.: .pdf).


                                                                    Total Score                                                                    0
                                                                    Total Possible Score                                                           0
                                                                    Standardized Score (normalized to range 0-5)                                 #DIV/0!
Collaboration
43.    Product supports document repository and sharing.            Please indicate if repository resides within the tool or outside of tool
                                                                    accessible by URLs.

44.    Supports stakeholder engagement outside the immediate Project visibility, access to documentation, ability to view status reports
       project team.                                         (without user license).

45.    Product captures lessons learned and includes them as        Support for post-implementation reviews.
       part of a project management knowledge database.

46.    Product captures and reports customer satisfaction.

                                                                    Total Score                                                                    0
                                                                    Total Possible Score                                                           0
                                                                    Standardized Score (normalized to range 0-5)                                 #DIV/0!
General Usability
47.    Product supports the capability to build different           Please indicate if this activity can be performed by users, system
       workflows, templates, drop-down data, reporting              administrator or if professional services are required.
       requirements based on project categorization of various
       categories such as project type, or configurable domain.


48.    Product supports the capability to edit/revise different     Please provide the high level process and screenshots (if available) of
       workflows, templates, drop-down data, reporting              how this would be accomplished. Please indicate if this activity can be
       requirements based on project categorization of various      performed by users, system administrator or if professional services are
       categories such as project type, or configurable domain      required.
       to satisfy unique and changing business requirements.


49.    Product supports user-and project-level access and           Please also indicate ability to define what project information is shared
       control.                                                     in the view for each role.
50.    Provides completeness/error checks, data warnings and
       spell check for data entry.
51.    Product provides for search, sort and filter capabilities.




      PI19-0101F                                                                                                                                                    Page 33 of 99
                                                                                     Request for Proposals PI19-0101F
                                                                    Project and Portfolio Management Software Solution Implementation

                                                                                       Technical Requirements Response Form
                                                                                        Must be included with your submittal

Respondent Name:

       Reference Appendix D for guidance on how to respond.



Reqt.                                                                                                                                           Option
ID    Functionality                                                 Description                                                                 Response Comments        Costs
52.    System shall allow users to establish notifications based
       upon predefined thresholds and criteria around system
       objects.
53.    Product has a Template Library.

54.    Ability to support project management knowledge              To facilitate data storage and mining.
       database.
55.    Product has a project management help portal.                E.g. best practice content is integrated with the software application.
                                                                    The Project Management Help Portal assists to serve as a user
                                                                    reference manual that documents the organization's policies and
                                                                    processes.
56.    A Process Manual is available in context with the            E.g. best practice content is integrated with the software application.
       operation of the tool.                                       The Process Manual assists to serve as a user reference training
                                                                    manual on how to utilize the product's functionality in context with
                                                                    operation of the tool. It should also document the logic behind the
                                                                    product algorithms.
57.    Product allows for the upload, and editing within the tool   For example, Microsoft Word, Excel, Project, PowerPoint, Visio and .pdf
       of project documentation in various formats.                 formats.

58.    Product supports baseline plans, version control and         Create baselines and manage multiple versions of scope, schedule,
       supports audit detail.                                       budget, resources, benefits, project document artifacts. Minimum
                                                                    requirement is simple check in/out and version control for project
                                                                    documents.
59.    Mobile access to the proposed product.                       To facilitate access to timesheets and tasks. This may be via a native
                                                                    application (dashboard review or approvals of various phases of activity)
                                                                    or via a mobile browser but still taking advantage of the format.


                                                                    Total Score                                                                    0
                                                                    Total Possible Score                                                           0
                                                                    Standardized Score (normalized to range 0-5)                                 #DIV/0!
Integration with Existing Toolsets
60.    Product supports full project scheduling through             Please indicate if integration is bidirectional or one-way. If one-way,
       integration with Microsoft Project.                          indicate if it is import or export from proposed PPM product. Note that
                                                                    MS Project Online or Enterprise are not a current supported or utilized
                                                                    solutions.

61.    Product supports integration with Microsoft Excel.           Please indicate if integration is bidirectional or one-way. If one-way,
                                                                    indicate if it is import or export from proposed PPM product.
62.    Product supports integration with Microsoft SharePoint.      Please indicate if integration is bidirectional or one-way. If one-way,
                                                                    indicate if it is import or export from proposed PPM product.




      PI19-0101F                                                                                                                                                    Page 34 of 99
                                                                                  Request for Proposals PI19-0101F
                                                                 Project and Portfolio Management Software Solution Implementation

                                                                                    Technical Requirements Response Form
                                                                                     Must be included with your submittal

Respondent Name:

       Reference Appendix D for guidance on how to respond.



Reqt.                                                                                                                                         Option
ID    Functionality                                              Description                                                                  Response Comments        Costs
63.    Product supports integration with agile tools.            For example, Jira. Please indicate if integration is bidirectional or one-
                                                                 way. If one-way, indicate if it is import or export from proposed PPM
                                                                 product.
64.    Product supports integration with SAP (ERP system).       For example, for project costing, accounting, timecard data, employee
                                                                 data, etc. Please indicate if integration is bidirectional or one-way. If
                                                                 one-way, indicate if it is import or export from proposed PPM product.


65.    Product supports integration with Microsoft Outlook email For task notification/resource assignment, auto-generated status
       and calendars.                                            updates, etc.

66.    Product supports integration with resource                For example, Tempus software. Please indicate if integration is
       capacity/demand planning applications.                    bidirectional or one-way. If one-way, indicate if it is import or export
                                                                 from proposed PPM product.

                                                                 Total Score                                                                     0
                                                                 Total Possible Score                                                            0
                                                                 Standardized Score (normalized to range 0-5)                                  #DIV/0!
Cloud and Security
67.    Access to the application is entirely through web browser Supported browsers should include current versions of internet explorer,
       with no required software at the desktop (other than      chrome, edge. Indicate if proposed solution requires a browser other
       standard browser based controls).                         than these listed.
68.    Product has the ability to integrate to existing          For example, Active Directory or LDAP.
       security/user registration support.

69.    Customer has the ability to access/download data on-      For example, ability to regularly or on-demand download all project data
       demand.                                                   for backup purposes, or if and when a change in providers or transition
                                                                 to an on premise solution is necessary. Indicate if this action requires
                                                                 professional services.

70.    Support for accessibility standards (e.g., Disability     Accessible Technology Initiative (ATI) aka ADA.
       Discrimination Act or successors or equivalents).
                                                                 Total Score                                                                     0
                                                                 Total Possible Score                                                            0
                                                                 Standardized Score (normalized to range 0-5)                                  #DIV/0!




      PI19-0101F                                                                                                                                                  Page 35 of 99
                                                             Request for Proposals PI19-0101F
                                            Project and Portfolio Management Software Solution Implementation

                                                               License Requirements Response Form
                                                                Must be included with your submittal

Respondent Name:

Reference Appendix D for guidance on how to respond.
The following summary of systems users (or closest appropriate match) should be used for proposal pricing. Tacoma Public Utilities reserves the right to proceed with
acquisition of some, all, or a reduced or higher number of the roles listed below. Indicate the closest appropriate licensing match to referenced User Role under the column,
"License Account Type" and indicate if the license is considered a named user or concurrent license. Provide the unit and extended license pricing by License Type below.
Transmit the Extended Costs to the Price Proposal Form.



User Licensing Requirements                                                                                      User License Type           User License Cost
                                                                                     Estimated            License       Named Concurrent
User Role               Functionality                                              Number of Users      Account Type     User      User  Unit Cost Extended Cost
Business User           Submit requests, monitor status of own requests, and           <100
                        provide user sign-off. Perform approvals.

Project Manager/Lead Create, plan, and monitor project workplans—create and                <20
                     update tasks; create/maintain project resource profile;
                     assign resources; schedule, define project exception
                     rules; set notifications; maintain project templates,
                     manage scope changes, issues, and risk. Monitor status
                     and critical path. Manage project expenses and
                     percentage complete. Email updates, messaging.
                     Participate in deployment management. Perform
                     approvals.
Program Manager      Manage program. Prioritize programs and projects.                     <5
                     Manage program and project initiation; monitor resource
                     capacity and utilization; monitor program status, scope
                     changes, issues and risk. Act on exceptions. Create and
                     manage financial summaries for programs. Monitor and
                     compare actuals to forecasts, monitor and/or perform
                     earned value analysis; benefits monitoring and
                     realization. Manage change control. Perform approvals.




     PI19-0101F                                                                                                                                                Page 36 of 99
                                                          Request for Proposals PI19-0101F
                                         Project and Portfolio Management Software Solution Implementation

                                                            License Requirements Response Form
                                                             Must be included with your submittal

Respondent Name:

User Licensing Requirements                                                                                   User License Type           User License Cost
                                                                                     Estimated         License       Named Concurrent
User Role           Functionality                                                  Number of Users   Account Type     User      User  Unit Cost Extended Cost
Portfolio Manager   Manage portfolio. Manage rating and prioritization of                <5
                    projects. Perform what-if portfolio scenarios. Evaluate
                    value and mix of current and proposed projects. Rank
                    and rate projects. Prioritize demand. Monitor resource
                    capacity and utilization. Monitor scope changes, issues
                    and risk. Create and manage financial summaries for
                    programs and projects. Monitor and compare actuals to
                    forecast, monitor and/or perform earned value analysis,
                    benefits monitoring and realization. Actively resolve
                    request information, update request information, assign
                    requests, move requests through workflow. Manage
                    change control. Report and Dashboards (read and
                    write).
Analyst             Monitor initiative (schedule and cost) status; track issues;         <10
                    monitor scope changes, issues, and risk, maintain
                    project templates; email updates, messaging. Actively
                    resolve request information, update request information,
                    assign requests, move requests through workflow.

Resource Manager    Create and manage resource pools. Manage resource                    <25
                    capacity and use. Review, freeze and approve
                    timesheets. Close, cancel timesheets. Delegate
                    functions. Compare work item forecasts versus actuals.

Resource Analyst    Create and manage resource skills, pools, profiles, and              <10
                    capacity.
Financial Analyst   Create and manage financial summaries for                            <10
                    departments, programs and projects. Track and compare
                    actuals to forecast, perform earned value analysis,
                    benefits monitoring and realization.




    PI19-0101F                                                                                                                                  Page 37 of 99
                                                               Request for Proposals PI19-0101F
                                              Project and Portfolio Management Software Solution Implementation

                                                                  License Requirements Response Form
                                                                   Must be included with your submittal

Respondent Name:

User Licensing Requirements                                                                                          User License Type           User License Cost
                                                                                         Estimated            License       Named Concurrent
User Role            Functionality                                                     Number of Users      Account Type     User      User  Unit Cost Extended Cost
Team                 Participate in project tasks and in request processes.                <125
Members/Consultant/  Execute project tasks and update task status. Actively
Contractors          resolve requests - update request information.
                     Participate in deployment management. Update
                     applicable timesheets or time against work items.
Sponsors, Executive  Overall visibility of status and metrics, drill-down to a                <25
Leadership, Managers specific level of detail on requests, task, projects, and
                     packages requiring action and further review. Monitor
                     project status and drill-down on exceptions. Ability to
                     view financial summaries, earned value analysis and
                     associated visualizations. Perform approvals.
Administrator        Common administration functions such as set-up of                         <5
                     users; manage licenses; assign security; configure user-
                     defined project information, and configure report types
                     and PPM Dashboard portlets. Configure object types;
                     workflows; request types; and configure business rules.
                     Define resource and regional calendars.

                                                                                                                                        License Extended Cost:       $               -

Provide clarification as to whether a license is required to perform the following activities. If a license is required, provide the License Account Type in the Response Clarification.

License Clarification                                                                                                  Response Clarification
                                                                                            Yes/No                     If yes, list the applicable License Account Type
Indicate if a license is required to submit project requests (ideas, proposals, work
requests, projects).
Indicate if a license is required to run pre-configured reports and consume data.
Indicate if a license is required for read-only access to project documentation,
including project status reports.




     PI19-0101F                                                                                                                                                      Page 38 of 99
                                                               Request for Proposals PI19-0101F
                                              Project and Portfolio Management Software Solution Implementation

                                                                 Security Requirements Response Form
                                                                  Must be included with your submittal

Respondent Name:

Reference Appendix D for guidance on how to respond.

CSP Designation
                                                                          Respondent
                                                                          comments as
                                                                          to how each
ID                     Criterion                                          criterion is met Additional Instructions
                                                                                          If the CSP has FedRAMP Authorized designation:
                       Indicate if Cloud Service Provider (CSP) has the                   • Provide the FedRAMP System Security Plan (SSP) supporting the FedRAMP
1
                       designation FedRAMP Authorized                                     Authorization.
                                                                                          • Provide answers to the TPU Cloud Procurement Questions below.

                                                                                          If the CSP has FedRAMP In Process or FedRAMP Ready designation:
                                                                                          • Provide the FedRAMP System Security Plan (SSP) supporting the requested
                       Indicate if Cloud Service Provider (CSP) has the                   FedRAMP Authorization.
2
                       designation FedRAMP in Process or FedRAMP Ready                    • Provide TPU the completed FedRAMP-Low-or-Moderate-CIS-Workbook-Template
                                                                                          submitted to FedRAMP
                                                                                          • Provide answers to the TPU Cloud Procurement Questions below.


                                                                                          If the CSP has no FedRAMP designation:
                                                                                          • Provide Security Plans and Security Policies that apply to the Cloud Service.
                                                                                          • Provide a completed FedRAMP-Low-or-Moderate-CIS-Workbook-Template (the
                                                                                          most recent version). Navigate to the following link to download the latest version of
                       Indicate if Cloud Service Provider (CSP) has no                    the SSP ATTACHMENT 9 - FedRAMP Low or Moderate Control Implementation
3
                       FedRAMP Designation                                                Summary (CIS) Workbook Template: https://www.fedramp.gov/templates/.
                                                                                          For reference documentation on the FedRAMP Security Controls Baseline, use the
                                                                                          following link:
                                                                                          https://www.fedramp.gov/assets/resources/documents/FedRAMP_Security_Controls_
                                                                                          Baseline.xlsx




     PI19-0101F                                                                                                                                                Page 39 of 99
                                                                Request for Proposals PI19-0101F
                                               Project and Portfolio Management Software Solution Implementation

                                                                   Security Requirements Response Form
                                                                    Must be included with your submittal

Respondent Name:


                                                                      TPU Cloud Procurement Questions

Cloud Category         Question                                                 Respondent comments as to how each question is met
                       Who owns the data created by the cloud system?

                       Who owns the cloud data content?

                       Are there charges for migrating data to the cloud?

                       Are there charges for migrating data off the cloud?

                       What are the methods for moving data to the cloud?
Data
                       What are the methods for moving data off the cloud?

                       What geographical data center locations house the
                       data?
                       Do only US based CSP personnel have access to the
                       data?
                       When TPU deletes data, is the data destroyed or
                       retained by the CSP?

                       What are the terms regarding data migration from
Contract/ Subscription
                       the cloud once a contract or subscription is
Termination
                       terminated?

                       Will the Cloud Service Provider (CSP) accept liability
                       for a data breech and provide
                       remediation/restitution?
Security Provisions
                       Are external third-party contracts required to comply
                       with policies and customer agreements?




       PI19-0101F                                                                                                                    Page 40 of 99
                                     APPENDIX B


                                    Sample Contract

             Standard Certificate of Insurance and Endorsement Requirements




PI19-0101F                                                                    Page 41 of 99
                                        SERVICES CONTRACT
    THIS CONTRACT, made and entered into [EFFECTIVE DATE] by and between the CITY
    OF TACOMA, a municipal corporation of the State of Washington (hereinafter referred to as
    the “CITY”), and [INSERT legal name of Supplier exactly as it appears in Ariba],
    (hereinafter referred to as “CONTRACTOR”);

    In consideration of the mutual promises and obligations hereinafter set forth, the Parties
    hereto agree as follows:
    1. Scope of Services/Work
        The CONTRACTOR
                   RACTOR agrees to diligently and completely perform the services and/or
        deliverables consisting of [INSERT A BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE WORK TO BE




                                                         E
        PERFORMED]
              ORMED] as is described in Exhibit XXXXX [A, B, ETC., if needed] attached hereto
        and incorporated herein.


    2. Order of Precedence




                              PL
        To the extent there is anyy discrepancy or conflict between and/or amongst the terms of
        this Contract and Exhibit(s) __________,___, the controlling terms for this Contract will be

        controlling, and the last listed being the least controlling: Contract,
        _____. [INSERT EXHIBIT
        CONTROLLING]


    3. Changes to Scope of Work
                                                                                 being the most
        interpreted in the following order of precedence, with the first listed bein
                                                                      Contract, Exhibit ___, Exhibit
                                   T REFERENCES IN ORDER OF WHICH IS MOST
             M
        The CITY shall have the right to make changes within the general
                                                                   g        scope of services
                                                                   order or amendment hereto. If
        and/or deliverables upon execution in writing of a change or
        the changes will result in additional work effort by CONTRACTOR, the CITY will agree to
        reasonably compensate the CONTRACTOR for such additional
                                                               addit     effort up to the
        maximum
             mum amount specified herein or as otherwise provided by City CodeCode.
SA

    4. On Call Contracts
               Contracts
        If the services and deliverables
                            deliverables performed under this Contract are on an on call or as
        assigned basis, service and deliverables may be assigned by Task Authorization or
        Statements of Work.


    5. Term
        All services shall be satisfactorily completed on or before [INSERT CONTRACT
        TERMINATION DATE] and this Contract shall expire on said date unless mutually
        extended in writing by the Parties.


    6. Renewals
        At CITY's sole option, the Term of this Contract may be renewed for additional [INSERT
        THE RENEWAL PERIOD - 1 YEAR, ETC] periods, not to exceed [INSERT THE


Services Agreement                                                                        CW#######
Template Revised: 2/27/2019                                                               Page 1 of 12
PI19-0101F                                                                                 Page 42 of 99
        MAXIMUM NUMBER OF RENEWAL PERIODS]. CITY will provide written notice of its
        intent to exercise any renewal options at least 30 days prior to the then existing Term
        and a written Amendment to this Contract will be mutually executed.


    7. Delay
        Neither party shall be considered to be in default in the performance of this Contract to
        the extent such performance is prevented or delayed by any cause which is beyond the
        reasonable control of the affected party and, in such event, the time for performance
        shall be extended for a period equal to any time lost as a result thereof. In the event
        CONTRACTOR is unable to proceed due to a delay solely attributable to CITY,
        CONTRACTOR shall advise CITY of such delay in writing as soon as is practicable.




                                                       E
    8. Compensation
        The CITY shall compensate the CONTRACTOR for the services and deliverables
        performed under this Contract [in accordance with OR on the basis of] [INSERT
        DESCRIPTION OF COMPENSATION ARRANGEMENTS – REFERENCE EXHIBIT,



    9. Not to Exceed Amount   PL
        TIME AND MATERIALS, LUMP SUM ETC.]



        The total price to be paid by CITY for CONTRACTOR’S full and complete performance
        of the Scope of Work hereunder shall not exceed $ [INSERT TOTAL AMOUNT OF
        CONTRACT] without the written consent of the CITY. Said price shall be the total
                                              performance hereunder including, but not limited to,
        compensation for CONTRACTOR’S performance
        all work, deliverables, materials, supplies, equipment, subcontractor’s fees, and all
             M
        reimbursable travel and miscellaneous or incidental expenses to be incurred by
        CONTRACTOR.
        In the event the CONTRACTOR incurs cost in excess of the sum authorized for service
        under this Contract, the CONTRACTOR shall pay such excess from its own funds, and
        the CITY shall not be required to pay any part of such excess, and the CONTRACTOR
        shall have no claim against the CITY on account thereof.
SA

    10. Payment
        CONTRACTOR shall submit XXXXXXXX {monthly, weekly, annual, Contract milestone,
        etc.} invoices for services completed and/or deliverables furnished during the invoice
        period. Upon CITY’S request, CONTRACTOR shall submit necessary and appropriate
        documentation, as determined by the CITY, for all invoiced services and deliverables.

        Payment shall be made through the CITY’S ordinary payment process, and shall be
        considered timely if made within 30 days of receipt of a properly completed invoice. All
        payments shall be subject to adjustment for any amounts, upon audit or otherwise,
        determined to have been improperly invoiced. The CITY may withhold payment to the
        CONTRACTOR for any services or deliverables not performed as required hereunder
        until such time as the CONTRACTOR modifies such services or deliverables to the
        satisfaction of the CITY.



Services Agreement                                                                     CW#######
Template Revised: 2/27/2019                                                            Page 2 of 12
PI19-0101F                                                                              Page 43 of 99
    11. Payment Method
        The City’s preferred method of payment is by ePayables (Payment Plus), followed by
        credit card (aka procurement card), then Electronic Funds Transfer (EFT) by Automated
        Clearing House (ACH), then check or other cash equivalent. CONTRACTOR may be
        required to have the capability of accepting the City’s ePayables or credit card methods
        of payment. The City of Tacoma will not accept price changes or pay additional fees
        when ePayables (Payment Plus) or credit card is used. The City, in its sole discretion,
        will determine the method of payment for this Contract.


    12. Independent Contractor Status
        The services and deliverables shall be furnished by the CONTRACTOR as an




                                                        E
        independent Contractor, and nothing herein contained shall be construed to create an
                                                        NTRACTOR shall provide at its sole
        employer and employee relationship. The CONTRACTOR
        expense all materials, office space, and other necessities to perform its duties under this
        Contract, unless stated otherwise in this Contract. No payroll or employment taxes of
        any kind shall be withheld or paid by the CITY with respect to payments to




                              PL
        CONTRACTOR. The payroll or employment taxes that are the subject of this paragraph
        include, but are not limited to, FICA, FUTA, federal income tax, state personal income
        tax, state disability insurance tax and state unemployment insurance tax. By reason of
        CONTRACTOR’s status as an independent Contractor hereunder, no workers'
        compensation insurance has been or will be obtained by the CITY on account of
        CONTRACTOR. CONTRACTOR may be required to provide the CITY proof of payment
        of these said taxes and benefits. If the CITY is assessed or deemed liable in any manner
        for those charges or taxes, the CONTRACTOR agrees to hold the CITY harmless from
        those costs, including attorney’s fees.
             M
    13. Services Warranty
        The CONTRACTOR warrants that all services pe      performed pursuant to this Contract shall
        be generally suitable for the use to which CITY intends to use said services and
        deliverables as expressed in the Scope of Wo Work. In the performance of services under
        this Contract, the CONTRACTOR and its employees further agree to exercise the
SA

        degree of skill and care required by cu
                                              customarily accepted good practices and
        procedures followed by professionals or servic
                                                   service providers rendering the same or similar
        type of service. All obligations and services of the CONTRACTOR hereunder shall be
        performed diligently and completely according to such professional standards.

         Unless a higher standard or longer periods of warranty coverage for product
        deliverables provided under this Contract is provided herein, CONTRACTOR agrees to
        correct any defect or failure of deliverables supplied under this Contract which occurs
        within one year from ________[FILL IN APPROPRIATE TIME FRAME, E.G. GO LIVE,
        FIRST USE, ETC]. During said warranty period, all of the costs (including shipping,
        dismantling and reinstallation) of repairs or corrections is the responsibility of the
        CONTRACTOR. If CONTRACTOR is not the manufacturer of the item of equipment,
        CONTRACTOR agrees to be responsible for this warranty and shall not be relieved by a
        lesser manufacturer's guarantee. This Contract warranty period shall be suspended
        from the time a significant defect is first documented by the CITY until repair or
        replacement by CONTRACTOR and acceptance by the CITY. In the event less than
        ninety (90) days remain on the warranty period (after recalculating), the warranty period

Services Agreement                                                                      CW#######
Template Revised: 2/27/2019                                                             Page 3 of 12
PI19-0101F                                                                               Page 44 of 99
        shall be extended to allow for at least ninety (90) days from the date of repair or
        replacement and acceptance by the CITY.


    14. Reliance on CITY Provided Data or Information
        If the CONTRACTOR intends to rely on information or data supplied by the CITY, other
        CITY contractors or other generally reputable sources without independent verification,
        such intent shall be brought to the attention of the CITY.


    15. Contract Administration
        [INSERT NAME TITLE AND DEPARTMENT OF CONTRACT ADMINISTRATOR] for the




                                                        E
        CITY shall have primary responsibility for contract administration and approval of
        services to be performed by the CONTRACTOR, and shall coordinate all
        communications between the CONTRACTOR and the CITY.


    16. Specific Personnel



                              PL
        If before, during, or after the execution of this Contract, CONTRACTOR represents to
        the CITY that certain personnel would or will be responsible for performing services and
        deliverables under this Contract, then the CONTRACTOR is obligated to ensure that
        said personnel perform said Contract services to the maximum extent permitted by law.
        This Contract provision shall only be waived by written authorization by the CITY, and on
        a case-by-case basis.


    17. Right to Audit
             M
        Upon CITY's request, CONTRACTOR shall make available to CITY all accounts, records
        and documents related to the performance of this Contract for CITY's inspection,
        auditing or evaluation during normal business hours as reasonably needed by CITY to
        assess performance, compliance and quality assurance under this Contract or in
        satisfaction of City's public disclosure obligation, as applicable.
SA

    18. Records Retention
        The CONTRACTOR shall establish and maintain records in accordance with
        requirements prescribed by the CITY, with respect to all matters related to the
        performance of this Contract. Except as otherwise authorized by the CITY, the
        CONTRACTOR shall retain such records for a period of ______[INSERT THE TIME
        THE RECORDS SHOULD BE KEPT. MOST COMMON IS 6 YEARS] years after receipt
        of the final payment under this Contract or termination of this Contract.

        If CONTRACTOR retains any City records or data hosted in a Cloud Service. CITY shall
        have the ability to access its records hosted in a Cloud Service at any time during the
        Term of this Contract. CITY may export and retrieve its records during the Term of the
        Contract and, no later than 30 days from the termination of this Contract,
        CONTRACTOR shall export CITY records to City's custody and control.


    19. Notices

Services Agreement                                                                      CW#######
Template Revised: 2/27/2019                                                             Page 4 of 12
PI19-0101F                                                                                Page 45 of 99
        Except for routine operational communications, which may be delivered personally or
        transmitted by electronic mail all notices required hereunder shall be in writing and shall
        be deemed to have been duly given if delivered personally or mailed first-class mail,
        postage prepaid, to the parties at the following addresses:
    CITY:                                             CONTRACTOR:
    Name:                                             Name:
    Title:                                            Title:
    Address:                                          Address:
    Telephone No.:                                    Telephone No.:




                                                        E
    E-mail:                                           E-mail:



    20. Termination




                              PL
        Except as otherwise provided herein, the CITY may terminate this Contract at any time,
        with or without cause, by giving ten (10) business days written notice to CONTRACTOR.
        In the event of termination, all finished and unfinished work prepared by the
        CONTRACTOR pursuant to this Contract shall be provided to the CITY. In the event
        CITY terminates this Contract due to the CITY’s own reasons and without cause due to
        the CONTRACTOR’s actions or omissions, the CITY shall pay the CONTRACTOR the
        amount due for actual work and services necessarily performed under this Contract up
        to the effective date of termination, not to exceed the total compensation set forth herein.
        Termination of this Contract by CITY shall not constitute a waiver of any claims or
        remaining rights the CITY may have against CONTRACTOR relative to performance
              M
        hereunder.


    21. Suspension
        The CITY may suspend this Contract, at its sole discretion, upon seven (7) business
        days’ written notice to the CONTRACTOR. Such notice shall indicate the anticipated
SA

        period of suspension. Any reimbursement for expenses incurred due to the suspension
        shall be limited to the CONTRACTOR’S reasonable expenses and shall be subject to
        verification. The CONTRACTOR shall resume performance of services under this
        Contract without delay when the suspension period ends. Suspension of this Contract by
        CITY shall not constitute a waiver of any claims or remaining rights the CITY may have
        against CONTRACTOR relative to performance hereunder.


    22. Taxes
        CONTRACTOR is responsible for the payment of all charges and taxes applicable to the
        services performed under this Contract, and CONTRACTOR agrees to comply with all
        applicable laws regarding the reporting of income, maintenance of records, and all other
        requirements and obligations imposed pursuant to applicable law. If the CITY is
        assessed, made liable, or responsible in any manner for such charges or taxes, the
        CONTRACTOR holds CITY harmless from such costs, including attorney's fees.


Services Agreement                                                                      CW#######
Template Revised: 2/27/2019                                                             Page 5 of 12
PI19-0101F                                                                               Page 46 of 99
        If CONTRACTOR fails to pay any taxes, assessments, penalties, or fees imposed by
        any governmental body, including by Tacoma City ordinance, and including by a court of
        law, CITY will deduct and withhold or pay over to the appropriate governmental body
        those unpaid amounts upon demand by the governmental body. Any such payments
        shall be deducted from the CONTRACTOR’s total compensation.


    23. Licenses and Permits
        The CONTRACTOR, at its expense, shall obtain and keep in force any and all
        necessary licenses and permits. The CONTRACTOR OR shall obtain a business license as
        required by Tacoma Municipal Code Subtitle 6B.20 and shall pay business and
        occupation taxes as required by Tacoma Municipal Code Subtitle 6A.30. If applicable,




                                                        E
        CONTRACTOR must have a Washington state business license.


    24. Indemnification
        CONTRACTOR shall indemnify, defend, and hold harmless the CITY, its officials,
        officers, agents, employees, and volunteers, from any and all claims, demands,



                              PL
        damages, lawsuits, liabilities, losses, liens, expenses and costs arising out of the subject
        matter of this Contract; provided that this provision shall not apply to the extent that
        damage or injury results from the sole negligence of the CITY, or its officers, agents, or
        employees. This indemnification shall extend to and include attorneys’ fees and the cost
        of establishing the right of indemnification hereunder in favor of the CITY. This
        indemnification shall survive the termination of this Contract.

        It is expressly agreed that with respect to design professional services performed by
        CONTRACTOR herein, CONTRACTOR's duty of indemnification, including the duty and
             M
        cost to defend, against liability for damages arising out of such services or out of bodily
        injury to persons or damage to property shall, as provided in RCW 4.24.115 apply only
        to the extent of CONTRACTOR's negligence.


        CONTRACTOR hereby warrants and represents CONTRACTOR is owner of any
        products, solutions or deliverables provided and licensed under this Contract or
SA

        otherwise has the right to grant to CITY the licensed rights under this Contract, without
        violating the rights of any third party worldwide. CONTRACTOR shall, at its expense,
        defend, indemnify and hold harmless CITY and its employees, officers, directors,
        contractors, agents and volunteers from any claim or action against CITY which is based
        on a claim against CITY for infringement of a patent, copyright, trademark, or other
        propriety right or appropriation of a trade secret.


    25. Title 51 Waiver
        CONTRACTOR specifically assumes potential liability for actions brought by the
        CONTRACTOR’S own employees against the CITY and, solely for the purpose of this
        indemnification and defense, the CONTRACTOR specifically waives any immunity under
        the state industrial insurance law, Title 51 RCW. THE CONTRACTOR RECOGNIZES
        THAT THIS WAIVER WAS THE SUBJECT OF MUTUAL NEGOTIATION.



Services Agreement                                                                      CW#######
Template Revised: 2/27/2019                                                             Page 6 of 12
PI19-0101F                                                                               Page 47 of 99
    26. Insurance
        During the course and performance of the services herein specified, CONTRACTOR will
        maintain the insurance coverage in the amounts and in the manner specified in the City
        of Tacoma Insurance Requirements as is applicable to the services and deliverables
        provided under this Contract. The City of Tacoma Insurance Requirements documents
        are fully incorporated herein by reference.

        Failure by City to identify a deficiency in the insurance documentation provided by
        Contractor or failure of City to demand verification of coverage or compliance by
        Contractor with these insurance requirements shall not be construed as a waiver of
        Contractor’s obligation to maintain such insurance.




                                                        E
    27. Nondiscrimination
        The CONTRACTOR agrees to take all steps necessary to comply with all federal, state,
                                                   discrimination and equal employment
        and City laws and policies regarding non-discrimination
        opportunities. The CONTRACTOR shall not discriminate in any employment action




                               PL
        because of race, religion, creed, color, national origin or ancestry, sex, gender identity,
        sexual orientation, age, marital status, familial status, veteran or military status, the
        presence of any sensory, mental or physical disability or the use of a trained dog guide
        or service animal by a disabled person. In the event of non-compliance by the
        CONTRACTOR with any of the non-discrimination provisions of this Contract, the CITY
        shall be deemed to have cause to terminate this Contract, in whole or in part.


    28. Conflict of Interest
        No officer, employee, or agent of the CITY, nor any member of the immediate family of
             M
        any such officer, employee, or agent as defined by City ordinance, shall have any
        personal financial interest, direct or indirect, in this Contract, either in fact or in
        appearance. The CONTRACTOR shall comply with all federal, state, and City conflict of
        interest laws, statutes, and regulations. The CONTRACTOR represents that the
        CONTRACTOR presently has no interest and shall not acquire any interest, direct or
        indirect, in the program to which this Cont
                                                 Contract pertains which would conflict in any
SA

        manner or degree with the performance of the CONTRACTOR’S services and
        obligations hereunder. The CONTRACTOR further covenants that, in performance of
        this Contract, no person having any such interest shall be employed. The
        CONTRACTOR also agrees that its violation of the CITY’S Code of Ethics contained in
        Chapter 1.46 of the Tacoma Municipal Code shall constitute a breach of this Contract
        subjecting the Contract to termination.


    29. City ownership of Work/Rights in Data and Publications
        To the extent CONTRACTOR creates any Work subject to the protections of the
        Copyright Act (Title 17 U.S.C) in its performance of this Contract, CONTRACTOR
        agrees to the following: The Work has been specially ordered and commissioned by
        CITY. CONTRACTOR agrees that the Work is a "work made for hire" for copyright
        purposes, with all copyrights in the Work owned by CITY. To the extent that the Work
        does not qualify as a work made for hire under applicable law, and to the extent that the
        Work includes material subject to copyright, CONTRACTOR hereby assigns to CITY, its

Services Agreement                                                                      CW#######
Template Revised: 2/27/2019                                                             Page 7 of 12
PI19-0101F                                                                               Page 48 of 99
        successors and assigns, all right, title and interest in and to the Work, including but not
        limited to, all patent, trade secret, and other proprietary rights and all rights, title and
        interest in and to any inventions and designs embodied in the Work or developed during
        the course of CONTRACTOR'S creation of the Work. CONTRACTOR shall execute and
        deliver such instruments and take such other action as may be required and requested
        by CITY to carry out the assignment made pursuant to this section. Any documents,
        magnetically or optically encoded media, or other materials created by CONTRACTOR
        pursuant to this Contract shall be owned by CITY and subject to the terms of this sub-
        section. To the maximum extent permitted by law, CONTRACTOR waives all moral
        rights in the Work. The rights granted hereby to CITY shall survive the expiration or
        termination of this Contract. CONTRACTOR shall be solely responsible for obtaining
        releases for the performance, display, recreation, or use of copyrighted materials.




                                                        E
    30. Public Disclosure
        This Contract and documents provided to the CITY by CONTRACTOR hereunder are
        deemed public records subject to disclosure under the Washington State Public Records
        Act, Chapter 42.56 RCW (Public Records Act). Thus, the CITY may be required, upon



                              PL
        request, to disclose this Contract and documents related to it unless an exemption under
        the Public Records Act or other laws applies. In the event CITY receives a request for
        such disclosure, determines in its legal judgment that no applicable exemption to
        disclosure applies, and CONTRACTOR has complied with the requirements herein to
        mark all content considered to be confidential or proprietary, CITY agrees to provide
        CONTRACTOR ten (10) days written notice of impending release. Should legal action
        thereafter be initiated by CONTRACTOR to enjoin or otherwise prevent such release, all
        expense of any such litigation shall be borne by CONTRACTOR, including any
        damages, attorneys fees or costs awarded by reason of having opposed disclosure.
        CITY shall not be liable for any release where notice was provided and CONTRACTOR
             M
        took no action to oppose the release of information.
                                                  information. Notice of any proposed release of
        information pursuant to Chapter 42.56 RCW, shall be provided to CONTRACTOR
        according to the “Notices” provision herein.


    31. Confidential or Proprietary Records Must be Marked
SA

        If CONTRACTOR provides the CITY with records that CONTRACTOR considers
        confidential or proprietary, CONTRACTOR must mark all applicable pages of said
        record(s) as “Confidential” or “Proprietary.” If CONTRACTOR fails to so mark record(s),
        then (1) the CITY, upon request, may release said record(s) without the need to satisfy
        the notice requirements above; and (2) the CONTRACTOR expressly waives its right to
        allege any kind of civil action or claim against the CITY pertaining to the release of said
        record(s).


    32. Duty of Confidentiality
        CONTRACTOR acknowledges that unauthorized disclosure of information or
        documentation concerning the Scope of Work hereunder may cause substantial
        economic loss or harm to the CITY.

        Except for disclosure of information and documents to CONTRACTOR's employees,
        agents, or subcontractors who have a substantial need to know such information in

Services Agreement                                                                       CW#######
Template Revised: 2/27/2019                                                              Page 8 of 12
PI19-0101F                                                                                Page 49 of 99
        connection with CONTRACTOR's performance of obligations under this Contract, the
        CONTRACTOR shall not without prior written authorization by the CITY allow the
        release, dissemination, distribution, sharing, or other publication or disclosure of
        information or documentation obtained, discovered, shared or produced pursuant to this
        Contract.

        CONTRACTOR shall inform its employees, agents, and subcontractors of the
        confidentiality obligations under this Contract and instruct them so as to ensure such
        obligations are met. If so requested by the CITY, the CONTRACTOR further agrees to
        require all such individuals and entities performing services pursuant to this Contract to
        execute a Confidentiality and Non-Disclosure Agreement in a form acceptable to CITY.

        This Section shall survive for six (6) years after the termination or expiration of this




                                                         E
        Contract.

        CITY is required to provide notice of the Rules to all entities that receive confidential or
        otherwise protected personal information of CITY's customers. Italicized words in this
        Section refer to defined terms contained in the Red Flags Rules published by the




                              PL
        Federal Trade Commission in Title 16 Code of Federal Regulations, Part 681 (the "Rules
        "). CONTRACTOR is, as to Covered Accounts ccounts of CITY for which CONTRACTOR
                                                     Service Provider. Service Provider will perform
        performs activities under the Contract, a Service
        in accordance with its reasonable policies and procedures designed to detect, prevent,
        and mitigate the risk of identity theft and will promptly report to CITY any specific Red
        Flag incidents detected as to Covered Accounts of CITY and upon request by CITY will
        respond to or reasonably assist CITY in responding reported Red Flags. This Section
        shall survive for six (6) years after the termination or expiration of this Contract.
             M
    33. Approval for Release of Information Related to Contract
        If requested by CITY, CONTRACTOR shall not release any information or
        documentation concerning the work under this Contract or any part thereof for
        marketing, advertising, or other commercial activities or publication including, but not
        limited to, news releases or professional articles without CITY’s prior written approval.
        CONTRACTOR may submit at any time for review and approval a generic abstract
SA

        describing the component parts of the completed Scope of Services (“Project Abstract”).
        After receiving written approval of the Project Abstract from the CITY, the
        CONTRACTOR may make minor insignificant changes to the Project Abstract and use
        all or parts of the Project Abstract in proposals.

        This Section shall survive for six (6) years after the termination or expiration of this
        Contract.


    34. Dispute Resolution
        In the event of a dispute pertaining to this Contract, the parties agree to attempt to
        negotiate in good faith an acceptable resolution. If a resolution cannot be negotiated,
        then the parties agree to submit the dispute to voluntary non-binding mediation before
        pursuing other remedies. This provision does not limit the CITY’S right to terminate
        authorized by this Contract.


Services Agreement                                                                        CW#######
Template Revised: 2/27/2019                                                               Page 9 of 12
PI19-0101F                                                                                  Page 50 of 99
    35. Miscellaneous Provisions
        Governing Law and Venue
        Washington law shall govern the interpretation of this Contract. Pierce County shall be
        the venue of any mediation, arbitration, or litigation arising out of this Contract.


        Assignment
        The CONTRACTOR shall not assign, subcontract, delegate, or transfer any obligation,
        interest or claim to or under this Contract or for any of the compensation due hereunder
        without the prior written consent of the CITY.




                                                         E
        No Third Party Beneficiaries.
        This Contract shall be for the sole benefit of the parties hereto, and nothing contained
        herein shall create a contractual relationship with, or create a cause of action in favor of,
        a third party against either party hereto.


        Waiver.

                              PL
        A waiver or failure by either party to enforce any provision of this Contract shall not be
        construed as a continuing waiver of such provisions, nor shall the same constitute a
        waiver of any other provision of this Contract.


        Severability and Survival.
        If any term, condition or provision of this Contract is declared void or unenforceable or
             M
        limited in its application or effect, such event shall not affect any other provisions hereof
        and all other provisions shall remain fully enforceable. The provisions of this Contract,
        which by their sense and context are reasonably intended to survive the completion,
        expiration or cancellation of this Contract, shall survive termination of this Contract.


        Entire Agreement.
SA

        This Contract and the attached Exhibits, as modified herein, contain the entire
        agreement between the parties as to the services to be rendered hereunder. All previous
        and contemporaneous agreements, representations or promises and conditions relating
        to the subject matter of this Contract are superseded hereby. The Parties hereto
        mutually acknowledge, understand and agree that the terms and conditions set forth
        herein shall control and prevail over any cconflicting terms and conditions stated in any
        attachments hereto.


        Modification.
        No modification or amendment of this Agreement shall be effective unless set forth in
        writing and signed by the Parties.


        Direct Solicitation and Negotiation



Services Agreement                                                                        CW#######
Template Revised: 2/27/2019                                                              Page 10 of 12
PI19-0101F                                                                                 Page 51 of 99
        For service contracts valued $25,000 or less the City signature authorizes waiver of
        competitive solicitation by “Direct Solicitation and Negotiation” of professional and
        personal services in accordance with Tacoma Municipal Code 1.06.256 and the
        Purchasing Policy Manual.




                                                       E
                              PL
             M
SA



Services Agreement                                                                    CW#######
Template Revised: 2/27/2019                                                          Page 11 of 12
PI19-0101F                                                                              Page 52 of 99
    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties hereto have accepted and executed this Contract, as
    of the Effective Date stated above, which shall be Effective Date for bonding purposes as
    applicable. The undersigned Contractor representative, by signature below, represents and
    warrants they are duly authorized to execute this legally binding Contract for and on behalf
    of Contractor.

    CITY OF TACOMA:                                       CONTRACTOR:
    By:                                                   By:




                                                             E
                           (City of Tacoma use only - blank lines are intentional)



  Director of Finance: __________________           City Attorney: _______________________




                               PL
  Approved By: _______________________


  Approved By: _______________________


  Approved By: _______________________
                                                    Approved By: _______________________


                                                    Approved By: _______________________


                                                    Approved By: _______________________
             M
  Approved By: _______________________              Approved By: _______________________
SA



Services Agreement                                                                            CW#######
Template Revised: 2/27/2019                                                                  Page 12 of 12
PI19-0101F                                                                                     Page 53 of 99
        CITY OF TACOMA
        INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS FOR CONTRACTS


The Contractor (Contractor) shall maintain at least the minimum insurance set forth below. By requiring
such minimum insurance, the City of Tacoma shall not be deemed or construed to have assessed the
risk that may be applicable to Contractor under this Contract. Contractor shall assess its own risks and, if
it deems appropriate and/or prudent, maintain greater limits and/or broader coverage.

1.   GENERAL REQUIREMENTS
     The following General Requirements apply to Contractor and to Subcontractor(s) of every tier
     performing services and/or activities pursuant to the terms of this Contract. Contractor acknowledges
     and agrees to the following insurance requirements applicable to Contractor and Contractor’s
     Subcontractor(s):


     1.1. City of Tacoma reserves the right to approve or reject the insurance provided based upon
          the insurer, terms and coverage, the Certificate of Insurance, and/or endorsements.

     1.2. Contractor shall not begin work under the Contract until the required insurance has been
          obtained and approved by City of Tacoma.

     1.3. Contractor shall keep this insurance in force during the entire term of the Contract and for
          Thirty (30) calendar days after completion of all work required by the Contract, unless
          otherwise provided herein.

     1.4. Insurance policies required under this Contract that name “City of Tacoma” as Additional
          Insured shall:
         1.4.1. Be considered primary and non-contributory for all claims.
         1.4.2. Contain a “Separation of Insured provision and a “Waiver of Subrogation” clause in
                favor of City of Tacoma.

     1.5. Section 1.4 above does not apply to contracts for purchasing supplies only.

     1.6. Verification of coverage shall include:
         1.6.1. An ACORD certificate or equivalent.
         1.6.2. Copies of all endorsements naming the City of Tacoma as additional insured and
                 showing the policy number.
         1.6.3. A notation of coverage enhancements on the Certificate of Insurance shall not
                 satisfy these requirements – actual endorsements must be submitted.

     1.7. Liability insurance policies, with the exception of Professional Liability and Workers’
          Compensation, shall name the City of Tacoma and its officers, elected officials,
          employees, agents, and authorized volunteers as additional insured.
         1.7.1. No specific person or department should be identified as the additional insured.
         1.7.2. All references on certificates of insurance and endorsements shall be listed as “City
                  of Tacoma”.
         1.7.3. The City of Tacoma shall be additional insured for both ongoing and completed
                  operations using Insurance Services Office (ISO) form CG 20 10 04 13 and CG 20
Insurance Requirements                                                Spec/Contract Number: PI19-0101F
Template Revised 8/22/2019                                                                          Page 1 of 4
     PI19-0101F                                                                                Page 54 of 99
       CITY OF TACOMA
       INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS FOR CONTRACTS
                 37 04 13 or the equivalent for the full available limits of liability maintained by the
                 Contractor irrespective of whether such limits maintained by the Contractor are
                 greater than those required by this Contract and irrespective of whether the
                 Certificate of Insurance describes limits lower than those maintained by the
                 Contractor.

   1.8. Contractor shall provide a Certificate of Insurance for each policy of insurance meeting the
        requirements set forth herein when Contractor provides the signed Contract for the work to
        City of Tacoma. Contractor shall provide copies of any applicable Additional Insured,
        Waiver of Subrogation, and Primary and Non-contributory endorsements. Contract or
        Permit number and the City Department must be shown on the Certificate of Insurance.

   1.9. Insurance limits shown below may be written with an excess policy that follows the form of
        an underlying primary liability policy or an excess policy providing the required limit.

  1.10. Liability insurance policies shall be written on an “occurrence” form, except for Professional
        Liability/Errors and Omissions, Pollution Liability, and Cyber/Privacy and Security

  1.11. If coverage is approved and purchased on a “Claims-Made” basis, Contractor warrants
        continuation of coverage, either through policy renewals or by the purchase of an extended
        reporting period endorsement as set forth below.

  1.12. The insurance must be written by companies licensed or authorized in the State of Washington
        pursuant to RCW 48 with an (A-) VII or higher in the A.M. Best's Key Rating Guide
        www.ambest.com.

  1.13. Contractor shall provide City of Tacoma notice of any cancellation or non-renewal of this
        required insurance within Thirty (30) calendar days.

  1.14. Contractor shall not allow any insurance to be cancelled or lapse during any term of this
        Contract, otherwise it shall constitute a material breach of the Contract, upon which City of
        Tacoma may, after giving Five (5) business day notice to Contractor to correct the breach,
        immediately terminate the Contract or, at its discretion, procure or renew such insurance and pay
        any and all premiums in connection therewith; with any sums so expended to be repaid to City of
        Tacoma by Contractor upon demand, or at the sole discretion of City of Tacoma, offset against
        funds due Contractor from City of Tacoma.

  1.15. Contractor shall be responsible for the payment of all premiums, deductibles and self-insured
        retentions, and shall indemnify and hold the City of Tacoma harmless to the extent such a
        deductible or self-insured retained limit may apply to the City of Tacoma as an additional insured.
        Any deductible or self-insured retained limits in excess of Twenty Five Thousand Dollars
        ($25,000) must be disclosed and approved by City of Tacoma Risk Manager and shown on the
        Certificate of Insurance.

  1.16. City of Tacoma reserves the right to review insurance requirements during any term of the
        Contract and to require that Contractor make reasonable adjustments when the scope of
        services has changed.
Insurance Requirements                                                   Spec/Contract Number: PI19-0101F
Template Revised 8/22/2019                                                                             Page 2 of 4
    PI19-0101F                                                                                    Page 55 of 99
       CITY OF TACOMA
       INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS FOR CONTRACTS

  1.17. All costs for insurance shall be incidental to and included in the unit or lump sum prices of the
        Contract and no additional payment will be made by City of Tacoma to Contractor.

  1.18. Insurance coverages specified in this Contract are not intended and will not be interpreted to limit
        the responsibility or liability of Contractor or Subcontractor(s).

  1.19. Failure by City of Tacoma to identify a deficiency in the insurance documentation provided by
        Contractor or failure of City of Tacoma to demand verification of coverage or compliance by
        Contractor with these insurance requirements shall not be construed as a waiver of Contractor’s
        obligation to maintain such insurance.

  1.20. If Contractor is a State of Washington or local government and is self-insured for any of the
        above insurance requirements, a certification of self-insurance shall be attached hereto and be
        incorporated by reference and shall constitute compliance with this Section.

2. CONTRACTOR
    As used herein, "Contractor" shall be the Supplier(s) entering a Contract with City of Tacoma,
    whether designated as a Supplier, Contractor, Vendor, Proposer, Bidder, Respondent, Seller,
    Merchant, Service Provider, or otherwise.

3. SUBCONTRACTORS
    It is Contractor's responsibility to ensure that each subcontractor obtain and maintain
    adequate liability insurance coverage. Contractor shall provide evidence of such insurance
    upon City of Tacoma’s request.

4. REQUIRED INSURANCE AND LIMITS
    The insurance policies shall provide the minimum coverages and limits set forth below. Providing
    coverage in these stated minimum limits shall not be construed to relieve Contractor from liability in
    excess of such limits.

   4.1 Commercial General Liability Insurance
       Contractor shall maintain Commercial General Liability Insurance policy with limits not less than
       One Million Dollars ($1,000,000) each occurrence and Two Million Dollars ($2,000,000) annual
       aggregate. The Commercial General Liability Insurance policy shall be written on an Insurance
       Services Office form CG 00 01 04 13 or its equivalent. Products and Completed Operations shall
       be maintained for a period of three years following Substantial Completion of the Work related to
       performing construction services.

        This policy shall include product liability especially when a Contract solely is for purchasing
        supplies. The Commercial General Liability policy shall be endorsed to include:
        4.1.1 A per project aggregate policy limit, using ISO form CG 25 03 05 09 or an equivalent
               endorsement.




   4.2 Workers' Compensation
       4.2.1 Contractor shall comply with Workers’ Compensation coverage as required by the
Insurance Requirements                                               Spec/Contract Number: PI19-0101F
Template Revised 8/22/2019                                                                         Page 3 of 4
    PI19-0101F                                                                                Page 56 of 99
       CITY OF TACOMA
       INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS FOR CONTRACTS
               Industrial Insurance laws of the State of Washington, as well as any other similar coverage
               required for this work by applicable federal laws of other states. The Contractor must
               comply with their domicile State Industrial Insurance laws if it is outside the State of
               Washington.
   4.3 Employers’ Liability Insurance
       Contractor shall maintain Employers’ Liability coverage with limits not less than One Million
       Dollars ($1,000,000) each employee, One Million Dollars ($1,000,000) each accident, and One
       Million Dollars ($1,000,000) policy limit.

   4.4 Professional Liability Insurance or Errors and Omissions
       Contractor and/or its subcontractor shall maintain Professional Liability or Errors and
       Omissions with limits of One Million Dollars ($1,000,000) per claim and Two Million Dollars
       ($2,000,000) in the aggregate covering acts, errors and omissions arising out of the
       professional services under this Contract.
       If the policy limit includes the payment of claims or defense costs, from the policy limit, the per
       claim limit shall be Two Million Dollars ($2,000,000).
       If the scope of such design-related professional services includes work related to pollution
       conditions, the Professional Liability policy shall include Pollution Liability coverage.
       If provided on a “claims-made” basis, such coverage shall be maintained by policy renewals or
       an extended reporting period endorsement for not less than three years following the end of
       the Contract.
   4.5 Owners and Contractors Protective Liability Insurance
       Contactor shall maintain during the performance of all work pursuant to the Contract, an ISO
       form Owners and Contractors Protective Liability policy, on which City of Tacoma shall be a
       named insured. Said policy shall provide coverage for bodily injury and property damage arising
       from the work to be performed under the Contract, and shall have policy limits of no less than
       Ten Million Dollars ($10,000,000) combined single limit of liability with a dedicated aggregate
       limit of no less than Ten Million Dollars ($10,000,000).

   4.6 Other Insurance
       Other insurance may be deemed appropriate to cover risks and exposures related to the scope
       of work or changes to the scope of work required by City of Tacoma. The costs of such
       necessary and appropriate Insurance coverage shall be borne by Contractor.




Insurance Requirements                                              Spec/Contract Number: PI19-0101F
Template Revised 8/22/2019                                                                        Page 4 of 4
    PI19-0101F                                                                               Page 57 of 99
                         APPENDIX C


                 Standard Terms and Conditions

             Small Business Enterprise (SBE) Program




PI19-0101F                                             Page 58 of 99
                                           CITY OF TACOMA
                                   STANDARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS
                            GOVERNS BOTH GOODS AND SERVICES AS APPLICABLE


In the event of an award by the City, these Terms and Conditions stated herein, Additional Contract Documents if
issued, Solicitation if issued, Purchase Orders if issued by City, and Supplier's Submittal, if provided, shall constitute
the Contract between City and Supplier for the acquisition of goods, including materials, supplies, and equipment or
for the provision of services and deliverables.

Said documents represent the entire Contract between the parties and supersede any prior oral statements,
discussions, or understandings between the parties, and/or subsequent Supplier invoices. No modification of the
Contract shall be effective unless mutually agreed in writing.

The specific terms and conditions of any Solicitation (Specification, Request for Bids, Request for Proposals,
Requests for Qualifications, Requests for Quotations, Request for Information, bid documents, request to enter into
negotiations, or other form of solicitation issued by City, including any general, special, or technical provisions
associated with such Solicitations) are incorporated herein by reference and supersede these Terms and Conditions
where there is conflict or inconsistency.

In the event Additional Contract Documents are negotiated and agreed to in writing between Supplier and City, the
specific terms of such Additional Contract Documents are incorporated herein by reference and supersede all other
terms and conditions where there is conflict or inconsistency.

These Terms and Conditions, Additional Contract Documents if issued, Solicitation if issued, City purchase order if
issued, are controlling over Supplier’s Submittal if a Submittal is provided. Submittals if provided are incorporated
herein by reference.
  1.01   SUPPLIER / CONTRACTOR
         As used herein, “Supplier” or "Contractor" shall be the Supplier(s) entering a Contract with City, whether
         designated as a Supplier, Contractor, Vendor, Proposer, Bidder, Respondent, Seller, Merchant, Service
         Provider, or otherwise.
  1.02   SUBMITTAL
         Submittal means Bids, Proposals, Quotes, Qualifications or other information, content, records or
         documents submitted in response to a City Solicitation.
  1.03   FORMS OF SUBMITTAL
         Unless stated otherwise, all submittals must be in SAP Ariba and submitted exactly as specified or directed,
         and all required forms must be used.
  1.04   COSTS TO PREPARE SUBMITTAL
         The City is not liable for any costs incurred by Supplier for the preparation of materials or a Submittal
         provided in response to a solicitation, conducting presentations to the City, or any other activities related to
         responding to the City’s Solicitation.
  1.05   LICENSES/PERMITS
         A.   Suppliers, if applicable, must have a Washington state business license at the time of Submittal and
              throughout the term of the Contract. Failure to include a Washington state business license may be
              grounds for rejection of the Submittal or cancellation of contract award. Information regarding
              Washington state business licenses may be obtained at http://bls.dor.wa.gov.
         B.   Upon award, it is the responsibility of the Supplier to register with the City of Tacoma's Tax and License
              Division, 733 South Market Street, Room 21, Tacoma, WA 98402-3768, 253-591-5252,
              https://www.cityoftacoma.org/government/city_departments/finance/tax_and_license/. Supplier shall
              obtain a business license as is required by Tacoma Municipal Code Subtitle 6C.20.
         C.   During the term of the Contract, Supplier, at its expense, shall obtain and keep in force any and all
              necessary licenses and permits.




Standard Terms & Conditions, Form No. SPEC-190A                                                                Page 1 of 14
Rev.: 10/06/2018
PI19-0101F                                                                                                    Page 59 of 99
  1.06   PUBLIC DISCLOSURE: PROPRIETARY OR CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION
         A.   Supplier Submittals, all documents and records comprising the Contract, and all other documents and
              records provided to the City by Supplier are deemed public records subject to disclosure under the
              Washington State Public Records Act, Chapter 42.56 RCW (Public Records Act). Thus, City may be
              required, upon request, to disclose the Contract and documents or records related to it unless an
              exemption under the Public Records Act or other laws applies. In the event CITY receives a request for
              such disclosure, determines in its legal judgment that no applicable exemption to disclosure applies,
              and Supplier has complied with the requirements to mark records considered confidential or proprietary
              as such requirements are stated below, City agrees to provide Supplier 10 days written notice of
              impending release. Should legal action thereafter be initiated by Supplier to enjoin or otherwise prevent
              such release, all expense of any such litigation shall be borne by Supplier, including any damages,
              attorneys’ fees or costs awarded by reason of having opposed disclosure. City shall not be liable for any
              release where notice was provided and Supplier took no action to oppose the release of information.
         B.   If Supplier provides City with records or information that Supplier considers confidential or proprietary,
              Supplier must mark all applicable pages or sections of said record(s) as “Confidential” or “Proprietary.”
              Further, in the case of records or information submitted in response to a Request for Proposals, an
              index must be provided indicating the affected pages or sections and locations of all such material
              identified Confidential or Proprietary. Information not included in the required index will not be reviewed
              for confidentiality or as proprietary before release. If Supplier fails to so mark or index Submittals and
              related records, then the City, upon request, may release said record(s) without the need to satisfy the
              requirements of subsection A above; and Supplier expressly waives its right to allege any kind of civil
              action or claim against the City pertaining to the release of said record(s).
         C.   Submission of materials in response to City’s Solicitation shall constitute assent by Supplier to the
              foregoing procedure and Supplier shall have no claim against the City on account of actions taken
              pursuant to such procedure.
  1.07   SUSTAINABILITY
         A.   The City has interest in measures used by its contractors to ensure sustainable operations with minimal
              adverse impact on the environment. The City seeks to do business with vendors that value community
              and environmental stewardship that help us meet our sustainable purchasing goals.
         B.   The City encourages the use of environmentally preferable products or services that help to minimize
              the environmental and human health impacts of City operations. Suppliers are encouraged to
              incorporate environmentally preferable products or services into Submittals wherever possible.
              "Environmentally preferable" means products or services that have a lesser or reduced effect on human
              health and the environment when compared with competing products or services that serve the same
              purpose. This comparison may consider raw materials acquisition, production, manufacturing,
              packaging, distribution, reuse, operation, maintenance, or disposal of the product or service.
         C.   Environmental Standards. The City seeks to ensure that all purchases comply with current
              environmental standards and product specifications. Where appropriate, third party independent
              certifiers such as Green Seal and USEPA Standards shall be a minimum specification for products to
              the City, unless specified otherwise herein.
         D.   The City encourages the use of sustainability practices and desires any awarded Suppliers to assist in
              efforts to address such factors when feasible for:
              1.   Pollutant releases
              2.   Toxicity of materials used
              3.   Waste generation
              4.   Greenhouse gas emissions, including transportation of materials and services
              5.   Recycle content
              6.   Energy consumption
              7.   Depletion of natural resources
              8.   Potential impact on human health and the environment




Standard Terms & Conditions, Form No. SPEC-190A                                                               Page 2 of 14
Rev.: 10/06/2018
PI19-0101F                                                                                                   Page 60 of 99
  1.08   ALTERATIONS NOT ALLOWED
         Except as otherwise specifically provided in a Solicitation, Submittals that are incomplete or conditioned in
         any way, contain erasures, alternatives or items not called for, or not in conformity with law, may be rejected
         as being non-responsive. Any attempt to condition a Submittal by inserting exceptions to the Solicitation or
         any conditions, qualifications or additions that vary its terms may result in rejection of the Submittal. The City
         may reject any submittal containing a material deviation from the Solicitation.
  1.09   CORRECTION OF AMBIGUITIES AND OBVIOUS ERRORS
         A.   The City reserves the right to correct obvious errors in Supplier's Submittal. In this regard, if the unit
              price does not compute to the extended total price, the unit price shall govern.
         B.   Supplier shall notify the City of Tacoma Procurement and Payables Division in writing of any ambiguity,
              conflict, discrepancy, omission or other error in a Solicitation no later than five business days prior to the
              submittal deadline.
              1.   For solicitations conducted in SAP Ariba, Supplier shall notify the City of Tacoma Procurement and
                   Payables Division on the message board of the event.
              2.   For all other solicitations, Supplier shall notify the contract person listed in the Solicitation.
         C.   The City will make necessary modifications by addendum.
         D.   Supplier is responsible for identifying ambiguities, conflicts, discrepancies, omissions or other errors in
              the Solicitation prior to providing its Submittal or the ambiguity, conflict, discrepancy, omission, or other
              error is waived. Any Submittal that includes assumed clarifications and/or corrections without the
              required authentication of the same is subject to rejection.
  1.10   WARRANTIES/GUARANTEE
         A.   Suppliers warrant that all items, including services, as applicable:
              1.   Are merchantable.
              2.   Comply with the City's latest drawings and specifications.
              3.   Are fit for the City's intended use.
              4.   Will be performed according to the skill and care required by customarily accepted good practices
                   and procedures followed by service providers rendering the same or similar type of service.
              5.   Are new and unused unless otherwise stated.
              6.   Comply with all applicable safety and health standards established for such products by the
                   Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA), Washington Industrial Safety and Health
                   Act (WISHA) and/or Consumer Products Safety Act (CPSA), and all other applicable state and
                   federal laws or agency regulations.
              7.   Are properly packaged and contain appropriate instructions or warnings, including applicable
                   MSDS sheets.
  1.11   PATENTS, TRADEMARKS AND COPYRIGHTS
         Suppliers warrant that equipment and/or materials furnished, including software, do not infringe on any
         patent, trademark or copyright, and agree to indemnify, defend and hold harmless, the City in the event of
         any infringement or claim thereof.
  1.12   DELIVERY OF SUBMITTALS TO THE CITY’S PROCUREMENT AND PAYABLES DIVISION
         A.   Submittal packages must be received by the City’s Procurement and Payables Division in SAP Ariba
              (unless another form of delivery is stated), prior to the scheduled time and date stated in the Solicitation.
         B.   Supplier is solely responsible for timely delivery of its Submittal.
         C.   Submittals received after the time stated in the solicitation will not be accepted.
         D.   For purposes of determining whether a Submittal has been timely received in SAP Ariba, the City's
              Procurement and Payables Division will rely on the submittal clock in SAP Ariba.




Standard Terms & Conditions, Form No. SPEC-190A                                                                    Page 3 of 14
Rev.: 10/06/2018
PI19-0101F                                                                                                        Page 61 of 99
  1.13   SUBMITTAL IS NON-COLLUSIVE
         Supplier acknowledges that by its delivery of a Submittal to the City in response to a Solicitation, it
         represents that the prices in such Submittal are neither directly nor indirectly the result of any formal or
         informal agreement with another Supplier.
  1.14   PARTNERSHIPS
         The City will allow firms to partner in order to respond to a Solicitation. Multiple suppliers may team under a
         Prime Supplier’s Submittal in order to provide responses to all sections in a single submission; however,
         each Supplier’s participation must be clearly delineated by section. The Prime Supplier will be considered
         the responding vendor and the responsible party at contract award. All contract negotiations will be
         conducted only with the Prime Supplier. All contract payments will be made only to the Prime Supplier. Any
         agreements between the Prime Supplier and other companies will not be a part of the Contract between the
         City and the Prime Supplier. The City reserves the right to select more than one Prime Supplier.
  1.15   WITHDRAWAL OF SUBMITTALS
         A.   Prior to Submittal Deadline. Submittals may be withdrawn (including in SAP Ariba) prior to the
              scheduled submittal deadline.
         B.   After Submittal Deadline. No Submittal can be withdrawn after having been opened before the actual
              award of the contract, unless the award is delayed more than 90 calendar days beyond the date of
              opening. If a delay of more than 90 calendar days does occur, Supplier must submit written notice to the
              City purchasing manager that Supplier is withdrawing its submittal.
  1.16   ACCEPTANCE OF SUBMITTALS
         A.   If the solicitation announcement so states, submittals, unless previously withdrawn, will be read aloud,
              irrespective of any irregularities or informalities in such submittal, at the time and place specified in the
              solicitation announcement.
         B.   All submittals must remain open for acceptance by the City for a period of at least 90 calendar days
              from the submittal deadline.
  1.17   RIGHT TO REJECT
         A.   The City of Tacoma reserves the right to reject any and all submittals, waive minor deviations or
              informalities, supplement, amend, reduce or otherwise modify the scope of work or cancel the
              solicitation, and if necessary, call for new submittals.
  1.18   RESERVED RIGHTS
         A.   By providing a submittal in response to a City solicitation, Supplier acknowledges and consents to the
              below City rights and conditions. With regard to this procurement process, the City reserves, holds
              without limitation, and may exercise, at its sole discretion, the following rights and conditions:
              1.   To terminate the procurement process or decide not to award a contract as a result thereof by
                   written notice to the Suppliers for any reason whatsoever with or without substitution of another
                   solicitation.
              2.   To waive any defect, technicality, or any other minor informality or irregularity in any submittal, or
                   any other response from Suppliers.
              3.   To issue addenda for any purpose including:
                   a.   To make minor or major changes or alterations to the evaluation, selection and/or
                        performance schedule(s) for any events associated with a procurement.
                   b.   To supplement, amend, reduce, cancel, or otherwise modify a Solicitation, including but not
                        limited to modifications to the description of services and/or products contained in the
                        solicitation, by omitting services/products and/or including services/products.
              4.   To request clarifications, additional information, and/or revised Submittals from one or more
                   Suppliers.
              5.   To conduct investigations with respect to the qualifications and experience of Supplier(s),
                   including inspection of facilities and to request additional evidence to support any such
                   information.




Standard Terms & Conditions, Form No. SPEC-190A                                                                 Page 4 of 14
Rev.: 10/06/2018
PI19-0101F                                                                                                     Page 62 of 99
              6.   To eliminate any Supplier that submits an incomplete or inadequate response, or is non-
                   responsive to the requirements of a Solicitation, or is otherwise deemed to be unqualified during
                   any stage of the procurement process.
              7.   To select and interview a single finalist or multiple finalists to further the City’s evaluation of
                   Submittals provided in response to a Solicitation. The City may, in its sole and exclusive
                   discretion as to what is in the City’s best interest, elect not to conduct interviews of any or all
                   Suppliers in connection with a solicitation process.
              8.   Except in the case of Requests for Bids, to negotiate any rate/fee offered by a Supplier. The City
                   shall have the sole right to make the final rate/fee offer during contract negotiations. If the
                   selected Supplier does not accept the City’s final offer, the City may, in its sole discretion
                   discontinue contract negotiations and commence negotiations with another Supplier, except as
                   otherwise provided in Chapter 39.80, RCW.
              9.   To select and enter into a Contract with one or more Suppliers whose Submittal best satisfies the
                   interests of the City and is most responsive, in the sole judgment of the City, to the requirements
                   of a Solicitation.
              10. To award by line item or group of line items.
              11. To not award one or more items.
              12. To issue additional or subsequent solicitations.
              13. To seek partnerships between one or more Suppliers.
              14. Request additional related products and services from the selected Supplier(s) as necessary
                  throughout the term of the Contract.
              15. Negotiate costs or fees in the event of new legislation or regulatory changes, or issuance of
                  related compliance guidance, technology enhancements, and innovative solutions.
              16. In the event the City receives questions concerning a Solicitation from one or more Suppliers prior
                  to the deadline for response, the City reserves the right to provide such questions, and the City’s
                  responses, if any, to all Suppliers.
              17. If an award is made and, prior to entering into a contract, subsequent information indicates that
                  such award is not in the best interest of the City, the City may rescind the award without prior
                  notice to Supplier and either award to another Supplier or reject all submittals or cancel this
                  solicitation.
              18. To cancel award of a contract at any time before execution of the Contract by both parties if
                  cancellation is deemed to be in the City’s best interest. In providing a submittal, Suppliers agree
                  that the City is not liable for any costs or damages for the cancellation of an award. Supplier
                  assumes the sole risk and responsibility for all expenses connected with the preparation of its
                  submittal.
              19. To add additional City departments or divisions to the Contract or develop a separate Contract with
                  the Supplier subject to all terms, conditions and pricing of the original Contract
              20. To take any other action affecting a Solicitation or a procurement process that is determined to be
                  in the City’s best interests.
  1.19   SUBMITTAL CLARIFICATION
         Suppliers may be asked to clarify their Submittal. This action shall not be construed as negotiations or any
         indication of intentions to award. If called upon, Supplier must respond to such requests within two business
         days or the timeframe set forth by the City in its request for clarification. Supplier’s failure to respond to such
         a request may result in rejection of its Submittal.
  1.20   EVALUATION OF SUBMITTALS
         A.   The City of Tacoma reserves the right to award to the lowest and best responsible Supplier(s) delivering
              a Submittal in compliance with the Solicitation, provided such Submittals are reasonable and are in the
              best interest of the City to accept. The City may use a number of criteria for determining award,
              including evaluation factors set forth in Municipal Code Section 1.06.262. Suppliers who are
              inexperienced or who fail to properly perform other contracts may have their submittal rejected for such
              cause.




Standard Terms & Conditions, Form No. SPEC-190A                                                                  Page 5 of 14
Rev.: 10/06/2018
PI19-0101F                                                                                                      Page 63 of 99
              1.   Evaluation Factors. In addition to the factors set forth in Municipal Code Section 1.06.262, the
                   following may be used by the City in determining the lowest and best responsible Submittal:
                   a.   Compliance with a Solicitation and with applicable City requirements, including by not limited
                        to, the City’s Ethics Code and its Small Business Enterprise and Local Employment and
                        Apprenticeship programs.
                   b.   Submittal prices, listed separately if requested, as well as a lump sum total (if the unit price
                        does not compute to the extended total price, the unit price shall govern).
                   c.   The total cost to the City, including all applicable taxes, may be the basis for contract award.
                   d.   Time of delivery and/or completion of performance (delivery date(s) offered).
                   e.   Warranty terms.
                   f.   Quality of performance of previous contracts or services, including safety requirements and
                        past compliance with the City’s Ethics Code.
                   g.   Previous and existing compliance with laws and ordinances relating to contracts or services.
                   h.   Sufficiency of financial resources.
                   i.   Quality, availability, and adaptability of the supplies or services to the particular use required.
                   j.   Ability to provide future maintenance and service on a timely basis.
                   k.   Location of nearest factory authorized warranty repair facility or parts dealership.
                   l.   Ability, capacity, experience, stability, reputation, integrity, character, judgment, technical
                        qualifications, and skill to perform the contract or provide the services required.
              2.   Prompt Payment Discount. Payment discount periods of 20 calendar days or more, if offered in the
                   submittal, will be considered in determining the apparent lowest responsible submittal. Discounts
                   will be analyzed in context of their overall cumulative effect.
                   a.   ePayable/Credit Card Acceptance. Submittals offering ePayable/Credit card acceptance may
                        be compared against submittals offering a prompt payment discount to evaluate the overall
                        cumulative effect of the discount against the advantage to the City of the ePayable/Credit card
                        acceptance, and may be considered in determining the apparent lowest responsible submittal.
              3.   All other elements or factors, whether or not specifically provided for in a Solicitation, which would
                   affect the final cost to, and the benefits to be derived by, the City, may be considered in
                   determining the award of a Contract. The final award decision will be based on the best interests of
                   the City.
  1.21   CONTRACT OBLIGATION
         A.   The Submittal contents of the successful Supplier will become contractual obligations if a Contract
              ensues.
         B.   In the event the City of Tacoma determines to award a Contract, the selected Supplier(s) may be
              requested to execute Additional Contract Documents.
         C.   Supplier shall register with the City of Tacoma on the SAP Ariba Network and be enabled for
              transactions upon request by the City.
         D.   Suppliers may propose amendments to City’s Contract documents or to these Terms and Conditions,
              but the City retains the right to accept or reject proposed amendments.
         E.   No costs chargeable for work under the proposed Contract may be incurred before mutual acceptance
              and execution as directed.
  1.22   AWARD
         The City reserves the right to award Contracts for any or all items to one or more Suppliers in the best
         interests of the City.
  1.23   SUPPLIER'S REFUSAL TO ENTER INTO CONTRACT
         Any Supplier who refuses to enter into a Contract after it has been awarded to the Supplier will be in breach
         of the agreement to enter the Contract, and Supplier's certified or cashier’s check or bid bond, if any, shall
         be forfeited.
  1.24   LEGAL HOLIDAYS
         A.   The City of Tacoma observes the following holidays, which shall apply to performance of all contracts:

               New Year's Day                      January 1
               Martin Luther King's Birthday       3rd Monday in January



Standard Terms & Conditions, Form No. SPEC-190A                                                                  Page 6 of 14
Rev.: 10/06/2018
PI19-0101F                                                                                                      Page 64 of 99
               Washington's Birthday              3rd Monday in February
               Memorial Day                       Last Monday in May
               Independence Day                   July 4
               Labor Day                          1st Monday in September
               Veteran's Day                      November 11
               Thanksgiving Day                   4th Thursday of November
               Day after Thanksgiving             4th Friday of November
               Christmas Day                      December 25
         B.   When any of these holidays occur on Saturday or Sunday, the preceding Friday or the following
              Monday, respectively, is a legal holiday for the City of Tacoma.
  1.25   CONTRACT TERM
         All services shall be satisfactorily completed and all deliverables provided by the termination date stated,
         and the Contract shall expire on said date unless mutually extended in writing by the parties.
  1.26   EXTENSION OF CONTRACT
         Contracts shall be subject to extension at City’s sole discretion.
  1.27   TERMINATION AND SUSPENSION
         A.   Supplies. The City reserves the right to terminate a Contract at any time upon prior written notice to
              Supplier. Upon the effective date of termination specified in such notice, and payment by the City, all
              conforming supplies, materials, or equipment previously furnished hereunder shall become its property.
         B.   Services. The City may terminate a Contract at any time, with or without cause, by giving 10 business
              days written notice to Supplier. In the event of termination, all finished and unfinished work prepared by
              Supplier pursuant to the Contract shall be provided to the City. In the event City terminates the Contract
              due to the City’s own reasons and without cause due to Supplier’s actions or omissions, the City shall
              pay Supplier the amount due for actual work and services necessarily performed under the Contract up
              to the effective date of termination, not to exceed the total compensation set forth in the Contract.
         C.   Suspension. For either services or supplies, the City may suspend a Contract, at its sole discretion,
              upon three business days’ written notice to Supplier. Such notice shall indicate the anticipated period of
              suspension. Any reimbursement for expenses incurred due to the suspension shall be limited to
              Supplier’s actual expenses and shall be subject to verification. Supplier shall resume performance of
              services under the Contract without delay when the suspension period ends.
         D.   Termination or suspension of a Contract by City shall not constitute a waiver of any claims or remaining
              rights the City may have against Supplier relative to performance under a Contract.
  1.28   DEFAULT/BREACH
         In the event of material default or breach by Supplier on any of the conditions of a Contract, Supplier agrees
         that the City may, at its election, procure the goods or services from other sources, and may deduct from the
         unpaid balance due Supplier, or collect against the bond or security (if any), or may invoice and recover from
         Supplier all costs paid in excess of the price(s) set forth in the Contract.
         A.   Supplies. The City at any time by written change order or other form of written contract amendment may
              make reasonable changes in the place of delivery, installation, or inspection, the method of shipment or
              packing, identification and ancillary matters that Supplier may accommodate without substantial
              additional expense.
         B.   Services. The City shall have the right to make changes within the general scope of services and/or
              deliverables upon execution in writing of a change order or other written form of contract amendment. If
              the changes will result in additional work effort by Supplier the City agrees to reasonably compensate
              Supplier for such additional effort up to the maximum amount specified in the Contract or as otherwise
              provided by Tacoma Municipal Code. Any new services accepted by the City may be added to the
              Contract and/or substituted for discontinued services. New services shall meet or exceed all
              requirements of original award.
         C.   Expansion Clause. A Contract may be further expanded in writing to include other related services or
              products normally offered by Supplier, as long as the price of such additional services or products have
              a profit margin equal to or less than that in place at the time of original submittal. Such additions and
              prices will be established in writing. New items not meeting these criteria will not be added to the
              Contract. Supplier profit margins are not to increase as a result any such expansion.




Standard Terms & Conditions, Form No. SPEC-190A                                                              Page 7 of 14
Rev.: 10/06/2018
PI19-0101F                                                                                                  Page 65 of 99
  1.29   SCOPE OF SERVICES
         Supplier agrees to diligently and completely perform the services required by a Contract.
  1.30   SERVICES DO NOT INCLUDE PUBLIC WORK
         Unless otherwise stated, the services and/or work contracted for herein exclude public work and
         improvements as defined in RCW 39.04, as that statute may hereafter be amended.
  1.31   PREVAILING WAGES
         A.   If federal, state, local, or any applicable law requires Supplier to pay prevailing wages in connection with
              a Contract, and Supplier is so notified by the City, then Supplier shall pay applicable prevailing wages.
         B.   If applicable, a Schedule of Prevailing Wage Rates for the locality or localities where the Contract will be
              performed is attached and made of part of the Contract by this reference. If prevailing wages do apply
              to the Contract, Supplier and its subcontractors shall:
              1.   Be bound by the provisions of Chapter 39.12 RCW, as amended, relating to prevailing wages and
                   usual fringe benefits,
              2.   Ensure that no worker, laborer or mechanic employed in the performance of any part of the
                   Contract shall be paid less than the prevailing rate of wage specified on that Schedule, and
              3.   Immediately upon award of the Contract, contact the Department of Labor and Industries,
                   Prevailing Wages section, Olympia, Washington, to obtain full information, forms and procedures
                   relating to these matters. Per such procedures, a Statement of Intent to Pay Prevailing Wages must
                   be submitted by Contractor and its subcontractors to the City, in the manner requested by the City,
                   prior to any payment by the City hereunder, and an Affidavit of Wages Paid must be received or
                   verified by the City prior to final Contract payment.
  1.32   CONTRACT PRICING
         A.   Submitted prices shall include costs of submittal preparation, servicing of the account, all contractual
              requirements during contract period such as transportation, permits, insurance costs, bonds, labor,
              wages, materials, tools, components, equipment, and appurtenances necessary to complete the work,
              which shall conform to the best practice known to the trade in design, quality, material, and
              workmanship.
         B.   Surcharges of any type will not be paid.
         C.   If applicable, related additional products and corresponding services of benefit to the City not
              specifically required in a solicitation, but which Supplier offers to provide, may be included with the
              submittal. Supplier may request to add new products if the City approves them and Supplier can
              demonstrate the pricing is from the same pricing structure/profit margin.
         D.   Unless specifically stated otherwise, only firm prices will be accepted and all prices shall remain firm
              during the term of a Contract.
         E.   Price increases may at City’s discretion be passed along during a contract period if the increase is
              mandated by statute, or the result of a tariff.
         F.   By submitting prices, Supplier warrants prices equal to or better than the equivalent prices, terms, and
              benefits offered by Supplier to any other government unit or commercial customer.
         G. Should Supplier, during the term of a Contract, enter into any other contract, agreement or arrangement
            that provides lower prices, more favorable terms or greater benefits to any other government unit or
            commercial customer, the Contract with the City shall thereupon be deemed amended to provide the
            same price or prices, terms and benefits to the City. This provision applies to comparable products and
            purchase volumes by the City that are not less than the purchase volumes of the government unit or
            commercial customer that has received the lower prices, greater benefits, or more favorable terms.
         H.   If at any time during the term of the Contract, Supplier reduces prices to other buyers purchasing
              approximately the same quantities stated on the Contract, Supplier will immediately notify the City
              purchasing manager of such fact, and the price(s) for future orders under the Contract shall be reduced
              accordingly.
         I.   The City is entitled to any promotional pricing during the Contract period.
         J.   Price decreases shall be immediately passed on to the City.




Standard Terms & Conditions, Form No. SPEC-190A                                                                Page 8 of 14
Rev.: 10/06/2018
PI19-0101F                                                                                                    Page 66 of 99
         K.   The City reserves the right to increase or decrease the quantities of any item awarded pursuant to the
              Contract and pay according to the unit prices quoted in the submittal with no adjustments for anticipated
              profit.
  1.33   APPROVED EQUALS WHEN ALTERNATES ARE ALLOWED
         A.   Unless an item is indicated as "no substitute," special brands, when named, are intended to describe
              the standard of quality, performance, or use desired. Equal items will be considered by the City,
              provided that Supplier specifies the brand and model, and provides all descriptive literature,
              independent test results, specification sheets, schematic drawings, photographs, product samples, local
              servicing, parts availability, etc., to enable the City to evaluate the proposed equal. Performance testing
              in the field may be required.
         B.   The decision of the City as to what items are equal shall be final and conclusive. If the City elects to
              purchase a brand represented by Supplier to be an "equal," the City's acceptance of the item is
              conditioned on the City's inspection and testing after receipt. If, in the sole judgment of the City, the item
              is determined not to be an equal, the item shall be returned at Supplier's expense.
         C.   When a brand name or level of quality is not stated in Supplier's submittal, it is understood Supplier's
              submittal shall exactly confirm with those required in the Contract. If more than one brand name is
              stated in a Solicitation, Supplier(s) must indicate the brand and model/part number to be supplied.
  1.34   RISK OF LOSS, SHIPPING AND DELIVERY
         A.   Shipping. Prices must be quoted FOB destination (the place of destination as defined in RCW
              62A.2-319, as that statute may hereafter be amended), with freight prepaid and allowed (shipping
              costs included in unit prices), and risk of loss remaining with Supplier until delivery is tendered.
         B.   Delivery. Delivery will be to the designated addresses set forth in a Solicitation or as otherwise stated in
              the Contract. Deliveries shall be between 9:00 a.m. and 3:30 p.m., Monday through Friday only, except
              Legal Holidays. Failure to make timely delivery shall be cause for termination of the contract or order
              and return of all or part of the items at Supplier’s expense except in the case of force majeure.
  1.35   DELIVERY OF PRODUCTS AND PROVISION OF SERVICES – IDLING PROHIBITED
         A.   The City of Tacoma has a commitment to reduction of unnecessary fuel emissions and improving air
              quality by reducing unnecessary air pollution from idling vehicles. Limiting car and truck idling supports
              cleaner air, healthier work environments, the efficient use of city resources, the public’s enjoyment of
              City properties and programs, conservation of natural resources, and good stewardship practices.
         B.   Vehicles and/or diesel fuel trucks shall not idle at the time and location of the delivery to the City of
              Tacoma for more than three minutes. The City requires contractors to utilize practices that reduce fuel
              consumption and emission discharge, including turning off trucks and vehicles during delivery of
              products to the City. Exceptions to this requirement include when associated power is necessary to
              make a delivery or provide the service, when the engine is used to provide power to another device,
              and when a running engine is required for proper warm-up and cool-down of the engine.
  1.36   PACKING SLIPS AND INVOICES
         A.   Each invoice shall show City of Tacoma purchase order number, release number if applicable, quantity,
              unit of measure, item description, unit price and extended price for each line if applicable, services and
              deliverables provided if applicable. Line totals shall be summed to give a grand total to which sales tax
              shall be added, if applicable.
              1.   For transactions conducted in SAP Ariba, invoices shall be submitted through Ariba.
              2.   For invoices paid by ACH or by check, unless stated otherwise, invoices shall be electronically
                   submitted by email with corresponding PO number listed in the subject line to
                   accountspayable@cityoftacoma.org.
              3.   For invoices paid by credit card, invoices shall also display the last name of the cardholder and last
                   four digits (only) of the card number (e.g., Jones/6311). Unless stated otherwise, invoices shall be
                   electronically submitted by email with corresponding PO number listed in the subject line to (do not
                   combine different POs into one invoice or charge) to pcardadmin@cityoftacoma.org.
         B.   Any terms, provisions or language in Supplier’s invoice(s) that conflict with the terms of the Contract are
              superseded and shall not apply to the Contract unless expressly accepted in writing by the City.
         C.   Packing slips and shipping notices shall be sent to the specific City Division or Department receiving the
              item(s) at the address stated in City’s Solicitation or as otherwise stated in the Contract and include




Standard Terms & Conditions, Form No. SPEC-190A                                                                Page 9 of 14
Rev.: 10/06/2018
PI19-0101F                                                                                                    Page 67 of 99
              complete description of items, contents of items if crated or cased, quantity, shipping point, carrier, bill
              of lading number and City of Tacoma purchase order.
         D.   Supplier shall package orders, preferably in environmental friendly packaging such as reduced
              packaging and recyclable packing materials.
  1.37   COOPERATIVE PURCHASING
         The Washington State Interlocal Cooperation Act RCW 39.34 provides that other governmental agencies
         may purchase goods and services based on the Contract with the City in accordance with the terms and
         prices of the Contract if all parties are agreeable. Each public agency shall formulate a separate contract
         with Supplier, incorporating the terms and conditions of the Contract with the City of Tacoma. The City shall
         incur no liability in connection with such contracts or purchases by other public agencies thereunder. It will
         be Supplier’s responsibility to inform such public agencies of the Contract with the City. Supplier shall
         invoice such public agencies as separate entities.
  1.38   TAXES
         A.   Unless otherwise stated, applicable federal, state, City, and local taxes shall be included in the submittal
              and in contract as indicated below. As used herein, the term “taxes” shall include any and all taxes,
              assessments, fees, charges, interest, penalties, and/or fines imposed by applicable laws and
              regulations in connection with the procurement of goods and/or services hereunder.
              1.   Federal Excise Tax. The City of Tacoma is exempt from federal excise tax. The City will furnish a
                   Federal Excise Tax Exemption certificate, if required. If Supplier fails to include any applicable tax
                   in its submittal, then Supplier shall be solely responsible for the payment of said tax.
              2.   State and Local Sales Tax. The City of Tacoma is subject to Washington state sales tax. It is
                   Supplier's obligation to state the correct sales tax percentage and include the applicable
                   Washington state, city and local sales tax as a separate line item(s) in the submittal.
              3.   City of Tacoma Business and Occupation Tax. It is Supplier's obligation to include City of Tacoma
                   Business and Occupation tax in the unit and/or lump sum prices submitted; it shall not be shown
                   separately on the submittal. Per Sub-Title 6A of the City of Tacoma Municipal Code, transactions
                   with the City of Tacoma may be subject to the City’s Business and Occupation Tax.
         B.   Any or All Other Taxes. Any or all other taxes are the responsibility of Supplier unless otherwise
              required by law. Except for state sales tax, Supplier acknowledges that it is responsible for the payment
              of all taxes applicable to the Contract and Supplier agrees to comply with all applicable laws regarding
              the reporting of income, maintenance of records, and all other requirements and obligations imposed
              pursuant to applicable law.
         C.   If the City is assessed, made liable, or responsible in any manner for taxes contrary to the provisions of
              the Contract, Supplier agrees to hold the City harmless from such costs, including attorney's fees. In the
              event Supplier fails to pay any taxes, assessments, penalties, or fees imposed by any governmental
              body, including a court of law, other than those taxes the City is required to pay, then Supplier
              authorizes the City to deduct and withhold or pay over to the appropriate governmental body those
              unpaid amounts upon demand by the governmental body. It is agreed that this provision shall apply to
              taxes and fees imposed by City ordinance. Any such payments shall be deducted from Supplier’s total
              compensation.
  1.39   COMPENSATION
         A.   The City shall compensate Supplier in accordance with the Contract. Said compensation shall be the
              total compensation for Supplier’s performance hereunder including, but not limited to, all work, services,
              deliverables, materials, supplies, equipment, subcontractor’s fees and all reimbursable travel and
              miscellaneous or incidental expenses to be incurred by Supplier. Unless stated otherwise the total
              stated compensation may not be changed without a written change order or other form of contract
              amendment.
         B.   Payment(s) made in accordance with the Contract shall fully compensate Supplier for all risk, loss,
              damages or expense of whatever nature, and acceptance of payment shall constitute a waiver of all
              claims submitted by Supplier.
  1.40   PAYMENT TERMS
         A.   Payment shall be made through the City’s ordinary payment process, and shall be considered timely if
              made within 30 days of receipt of a properly completed invoice. All payments shall be subject to
              adjustment for any amounts, upon audit or otherwise, determined to have been improperly invoiced.




Standard Terms & Conditions, Form No. SPEC-190A                                                                Page 10 of 14
Rev.: 10/06/2018
PI19-0101F                                                                                                     Page 68 of 99
              The City may withhold payment to Supplier for any services or deliverables not performed as required
              hereunder until such time as Supplier modifies such services or deliverables to the satisfaction of the
              City.
         B.   Invoices will not be processed for payment, nor will the period of cash discount commence, until all
              invoiced items are received and satisfactory performance of the Contract has been attained. Upon
              CITY’S request, Supplier shall submit necessary and appropriate documentation, as determined by the
              CITY, for all invoiced services and deliverables. If an adjustment in payment is necessary due to
              damage or dispute, the cash discount period shall commence on the date final approval for payment is
              authorized.
  1.41   PAYMENT METHOD – EPAYABLES – CREDIT CARD ACCEPTANCE – EFT/ACH ACCEPTANCE
         A.   Payment methods include:
              1.   EPayables (Payment Plus). This is payment made via a virtual, single use VISA card
                   number provided by the City’s commercial card provider. Suppliers accepting this option will
                   receive “due immediately” payment terms. Two options for acceptance are available to
                   suppliers. Both are accompanied by an emailed advice containing complete payment
                   details:
                   a.   Straight-through processing (buyer initiated). Immediate, exact payments directly
                        deposited to supplier accounts by the City’s provider bank; the supplier does not need
                        to know card account details.
                   b.   Supplier retrieves card account through the secure, on-line portal provided via email
                        notifications sent by the City’s commercial card provider.
              2.   Credit card. Tacoma’s VISA procurement card program is supported by standard bank
                   credit suppliers and requires that merchants abide by the VISA merchant operating rules. It
                   provides “due immediately” payment terms.
                   a.   Suppliers must be PCI-DSS compliant (secure credit card data management) and
                        federal FACTA (sensitive card data display) compliant.
                   b.   Suppliers must be set up by their card processing equipment provider (merchant
                        acquirer) as a minimum of a Level II merchant with the ability to pass along tax,
                        shipping and merchant references information.
              3.   Electronic Funds Transfer (EFT) by Automated Clearing House (ACH). Standard terms are
                   net 30 for this payment method.
              4.   Check or other cash equivalent. Standard terms are net 30 for this payment method.
         B.   The City’s preferred method of payment is by ePayables (Payment Plus) followed by credit card
              (aka procurement card). Suppliers may be required to have the capability of accepting the City’s
              ePayables or credit card methods of payment. The City of Tacoma will not accept price
              changes or pay additional fees when ePayables (Payment Plus) or credit card is used.
         C.   The City, in its sole discretion, will determine the method of payment for goods and/or services
              as part of the Contract.
  1.42   NOTICES
         Unless otherwise specified, except for routine operational communications, which may be delivered
         personally or transmitted by electronic mail, all notices required by the Contract shall be in writing and shall
         be deemed to have been duly given if delivered personally or mailed first-class mail, postage prepaid, to
         Supplier’s registered agent and to the applicable City department representative.
  1.43   INDEPENDENT CONTRACTOR STATUS
         A.   Supplier is considered an independent contractor who shall at all times perform his/her duties and
              responsibilities and carry out all services as an independent contractor and shall never represent or
              construe his/her status to be that of an agent or employee of the City, nor shall Supplier be eligible for
              any employee benefits. No payroll or employment taxes or contributions of any kind shall be withheld or
              paid by the City with respect to payments to Supplier. Supplier shall be solely responsible for all said
              payroll or employment taxes and/or contributions including, but not limited to, FICA, FUTA, federal
              income tax, state personal income tax, state disability insurance tax and state unemployment insurance
              tax. If the City is assessed, made liable or responsible in any manner for such taxes or contributions,
              Supplier agrees to indemnify and hold the City harmless from all costs incurred, including attorney fees.




Standard Terms & Conditions, Form No. SPEC-190A                                                              Page 11 of 14
Rev.: 10/06/2018
PI19-0101F                                                                                                   Page 69 of 99
         B.   Unless otherwise specified in writing, Supplier shall provide at its sole expense all materials, working
              space, and other necessities and instruments to perform its duties under the Contract. Supplier, at its
              sole expense, shall obtain and keep in force any and all applicable licenses, permits and tax certificates
              necessary to perform the Contract.
  1.44   NONDISCRIMINATION
         Supplier agrees to take all steps necessary to comply with all federal, state, and City laws and policies
         regarding non-discrimination and equal employment opportunities. Supplier shall not discriminate in any
         employment action because of race, religion, color, national origin or ancestry, sex, gender identity, sexual
         orientation, age, marital status, familial status, or the presence of any sensory, mental, or physical handicap.
         In the event of non-compliance by Supplier with any of the non-discrimination provisions of the Contract, the
         City shall be deemed to have cause to terminate the Contract, in whole or in part.
  1.45   FEDERAL, STATE, AND MUNICIPAL LAWS AND REGULATIONS
         Supplier shall comply with all federal, state, municipal, and/or local laws and regulations in the performance
         of all terms and conditions of the Contract. Supplier shall be solely responsible for all violations of the law
         from any cause in connection with its performance of work under the Contract.
  1.46   FEDERAL AID PROJECTS
         The City of Tacoma in accordance with Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, 78 Stat. 252, 42 U.S.C. 2000d
         to 2000d-4 and Title 49, Code of Federal Regulations, Department of Transportation, subtitle A, Office of the
         Secretary, part 21, nondiscrimination in federally assisted programs of the Department of Transportation
         issued pursuant to such Act, hereby notifies all bidders that it will affirmatively insure that in any contract
         entered into pursuant to this advertisement, disadvantaged business enterprises as defined at 49 CFR, part
         26, will be afforded full opportunity to submit bids in response to this invitation and will not be discriminated
         against on the grounds of race, color, national origin, or sex in consideration for an award.
  1.47   REPORTS, RIGHT TO AUDIT, PERSONNEL
         A.   Reports. Supplier shall, at such times and in such form as the City may reasonably require, furnish the
              City with periodic status reports pertaining to the services undertaken or goods provided pursuant to the
              Contract.
         B.   Right to Audit. Upon City’s request, Supplier shall make available to City all accounts, records and
              documents related to the scope of work for City’s inspection, auditing, or evaluation during normal
              business hours as reasonably needed by City to assess performance, compliance and/or quality
              assurance under the Contract or in satisfaction of City’s public disclosure obligations as applicable.
         C.   Personnel. If before, during, or after the execution of a Contract, Supplier has represented or represents
              to the City that certain personnel would or will be responsible for performing services pursuant to the
              Contract, then Supplier is obligated to ensure that said personnel perform said Contract services to the
              maximum extent permitted by law. Substantial organizational or personnel changes within Supplier’s
              firm are expected to be communicated to City immediately. Failure to do so could result in termination of
              the Contract. This provision shall only be waived by written authorization by the City, and on a case-by-
              case basis.
  1.48   INSURANCE
         A.   During the course and performance of a Contract, Supplier will provide proof and maintain the
              insurance coverage in the amounts and in the manner specified in the City of Tacoma Insurance
              Requirements as is applicable to the services, products, and deliverables provided under the Contract.
              The City of Tacoma Insurance Requirements document, if issued, is fully incorporated into the Contract
              by reference.
         B.   Failure by City to identify a deficiency in the insurance documentation provided by Contractor or failure
              of City to demand verification of coverage or compliance by Contractor with these insurance
              requirements shall not be construed as a waiver of Contractor’s obligation to maintain such insurance.
  1.49   INDEMNIFICATION – HOLD HARMLESS
         A.   Supplier agrees to indemnify, defend, and hold harmless the City of Tacoma, its officers, agents and
              employees, from and against any and all liability which may accrue to or be sustained by the City of
              Tacoma for any claim, suit or legal action made or brought against the City for the death of or injury to
              persons (including Supplier's or subcontractor's employees), or damage to property involving Supplier
              or subcontractor(s) and their employees or agents, or for any other cause arising out of and in




Standard Terms & Conditions, Form No. SPEC-190A                                                              Page 12 of 14
Rev.: 10/06/2018
PI19-0101F                                                                                                   Page 70 of 99
              connection with or incident to the performance of the Contract, except for injuries or damages caused
              by the sole negligence of the City. In this regard, Supplier recognizes it is waiving immunity under
              Industrial Insurance Law, Title 51 RCW. This indemnification includes attorney's fees and the cost of
              establishing the right to indemnification hereunder in favor of the City of Tacoma. By Supplier's
              acceptance of this order, he/she agrees that this subsection has been mutually negotiated.
         B.   These indemnifications shall survive the termination of a Contract.
  1.50   CONFLICT OF INTEREST
         No officer, employee, or agent of the City, nor any member of the immediate family of any such officer,
         employee or agent as defined by City ordinance, shall have any personal financial interest, direct or indirect,
         in a Contract, either in fact or in appearance. Supplier shall comply with all federal, state, and City conflict of
         interest laws, statutes, and regulations. Supplier represents that Supplier presently has no interest and shall
         not acquire any interest, direct or indirect, in the program to which the Contract pertains that would conflict in
         any manner or degree with the performance of Supplier’s services and obligations hereunder. Supplier
         further covenants that, in performance of a Contract, no person having any such interest shall be employed.
         Supplier also agrees that its violation of the City’s Code of Ethics contained in Chapter 1.46 of the Tacoma
         Municipal Code shall constitute a breach of Contract subjecting the Contract to termination.
  1.51   CITY OWNERSHIP OF WORK/RIGHTS IN DATA/PUBLICATIONS
         A.   To the extent that Supplier creates any work subject to the protections of the Copyright Act (Title 17
              U.S.C.) in its performance of a Contract, Supplier agrees to the following: The work has been specially
              ordered and commissioned by the City. Supplier agrees that the work is a “work made for hire” for
              copyright purposes, with all copyrights in the work owned by City. To the extent that the work does not
              qualify as a work made for hire under applicable law, and to the extent that the work includes material
              subject to copyright, Supplier hereby assigns to City, its successors and assigns, all right, title and
              interest in and to the work, including but not limited to, all copyrights, patent, trade secret and other
              proprietary rights, and all rights, title and interest in and to any inventions and designs embodied in the
              work or developed during the course of Supplier’s creation of the work.
         B.   Supplier shall be solely responsible for obtaining releases and/or licenses for the reproduction,
              distribution, creation of derivative works, performance, display, or other use of copyrighted materials.
              Should Supplier fail to obtain said releases and/or licenses, Supplier shall indemnify, defend, and hold
              harmless the City for any claim resulting there from.
  1.52   DUTY OF CONFIDENTIALITY
         Supplier acknowledges that unauthorized disclosure of information or documentation concerning the Scope
         of Work hereunder may cause substantial economic loss or harm to the City. Except for disclosure of
         information and documents to Supplier’s employees, agents, or subcontractors who have a substantial need
         to know such information in connection with Supplier’s performance of obligations under the Contract,
         Supplier shall not without prior written authorization by the City allow the release, dissemination, distribution,
         sharing, or other publication or disclosure of information or documentation obtained, discovered, shared or
         produced pursuant to a Contract.
  1.53   DISPUTE RESOLUTION
         In the event of a dispute pertaining to ta Contract, the parties agree to attempt to negotiate in good faith an
         acceptable resolution. If a resolution cannot be negotiated, then the parties agree to submit the dispute to
         voluntary non-binding mediation before pursuing other remedies. This provision does not limit the City’s right
         to terminate.
  1.54   GOVERNING LAW AND VENUE
         A.   Washington law shall govern the interpretation of the Contract. The state or federal courts located in
              Pierce County Washington shall be the sole venue of any mediation, arbitration, or litigation arising out
              of the Contract.
         B.   Respondents providing submittals from outside the legal jurisdiction of the United States of America will
              be subject to Tacoma’s City Attorney’s Office (CAO) opinion as to the viability of possible litigation
              pursuant to a contract resulting from this Specification. If it is the opinion of the CAO that any possible
              litigation would be beyond reasonable cost and/or enforcement, the submittal may be excluded from
              evaluation.




Standard Terms & Conditions, Form No. SPEC-190A                                                                Page 13 of 14
Rev.: 10/06/2018
PI19-0101F                                                                                                     Page 71 of 99
  1.55   ASSIGNMENT
         Supplier shall not assign, subcontract, delegate or transfer any obligation, interest or claim to or under the
         Contract without the prior written consent of the City.
  1.56   WAIVER
         A waiver or failure by either party to enforce any provision of the contract shall not be construed as a
         continuing waiver of such provisions, nor shall the same constitute a waiver of any other provision of the
         Contract.
  1.57   SEVERABILITY AND SURVIVAL
         If any term, condition or provision herein or incorporated by reference is declared void or unenforceable or
         limited in its application or effect, such event shall not affect any other provisions hereof and all other
         provisions shall remain fully enforceable. The provisions of the Contract, which by their sense and context
         are reasonably intended to survive the completion, expiration or cancellation of the Contract, shall survive
         termination of the Contract.
  1.58   NO CITY LIABILITY
         Neither the City, its officials, staff, agents, employees, representatives, or consultants will be liable for any
         claims or damages resulting from any aspect of this procurement process.
  1.59   SIGNATURES
         A signed copy of Submittals, Contract documents, including but not limited to contract amendments, contract
         exhibits, task orders, statements of work and other such Contract related documents, delivered by email or
         other means of electronic transmission including by using a third party service, which service is provided
         primarily for the electronic execution of electronic records, shall be deemed to have the same legal effect as
         delivery of an original signed copy.




Standard Terms & Conditions, Form No. SPEC-190A                                                                Page 14 of 14
Rev.: 10/06/2018
PI19-0101F                                                                                                     Page 72 of 99
                                                                                                      Tacoma Municipal Code

                                                  CHAPTER 1.07
                                           SMALL BUSINESS ENTERPRISE

Sections:
1.07.010        Policy and purpose.
1.07.020        Definitions.
1.07.030        Discrimination prohibited.
1.07.040        Program administration.
1.07.050        Certification.
1.07.060        Program requirements.
1.07.070        Evaluation of submittals.
1.07.080        Contract compliance.
1.07.090        Program monitoring.
1.07.100        Enforcement.
1.07.110        Remedies.
1.07.120        Unlawful acts.
1.07.130        Severability.
1.07.140        Sunset and review of program.

1.07.010        Policy and purpose.
It is the policy of the City of Tacoma that citizens be afforded an opportunity for full participation in our free enterprise
system and that historically underutilized business enterprises shall have an equitable opportunity to participate in the
performance of City contracts. The City finds that in its contracting for supplies, services and public works there has been
historical underutilization of small businesses located in certain geographically and economically disfavored locations and that
this underutilization has had a deleterious impact on the economic well-being of the City. The purpose of this chapter is to
remedy the effects of such underutilization through use of reasonably achievable goals to increase opportunities for
historically underutilized businesses to participate in City contracts. It is the goal of this chapter to facilitate a substantial
procurement, education, and mentorship program designed to promote equitable participation by historically underutilized
businesses in the provision of supplies, services, and public works to the City. It is not the purpose of this chapter to provide
any person or entity with any right, privilege, or claim, not shared by the public, generally, and this chapter shall not be
construed to do so. This chapter is adopted in accordance with Chapter 35.22 RCW and RCW 49.60.400.
(Ord. 27867 Ex. A; passed Dec. 15, 2009)

1.07.020        Definitions.
Terms used in this chapter shall have the following meanings unless defined elsewhere in the Tacoma Municipal Code
(“TMC”), or unless the context in which they are used clearly indicates a different meaning.
A. “Affidavit of Small Business Enterprise Certification” means the fully completed, signed, and notarized affidavit that must
be submitted with an application for SBE certification. Representations and certifications made by the applicant in this
Affidavit are made under penalty of perjury and will be used and relied upon by City to verify SBE eligibility and compliance
with SBE certification and documentation requirements.
B. “Base Bid” means a Bid for Public Works to be performed or Supplies or Services to be furnished under a City Contract,
including additives, alternates, deductives, excluding force accounts, and taxes collected separately pursuant to Washington
Administrative Code (“WAC”) 458-20-171.
C. “Bid” means an offer submitted by a Respondent to furnish Supplies, Services, and/or Public Works in conformity with the
Specifications and any other written terms and conditions included in a City request for such offer.
D. “Bidder” means an entity or individual who submits a Bid, Proposal or Quote. See also “Respondent.”
E. “City” means all Departments, Divisions and agencies of the City of Tacoma.
F. “Contract” means any type of legally binding agreement regardless of form or title that governs the terms and conditions for
procurement of Public Works and Improvements and/or Non-Public Works and Improvements Supplies and Services.
Contracts include the terms and conditions found in Specifications, Bidder or Respondent Submittals, and purchase orders
issued by the City. A “Contract” as used in this chapter shall include an agreement between the City and a non-profit entity to
perform construction-related services for Public Works. A “Contract” does not include: (1) awards made by the City with
federal/state grant or City general funds monies to a non-profit entity where the City offers assistance, guidance, or
supervision on a project or program, and the recipient of the grant awards uses the grant moneys to provide services to the


      PI19-0101F
City Clerk’s Office                                           1-55                                              Page 73 of 3/2019)
                                                                                                                  (Revised 99
                                                                                                      Tacoma Municipal Code

community; (2) sales transactions where the City sells its personal or real property; (3) a loan transaction where the City is
acting as a debtor or a creditor; (4) lease, franchise; (5) agreements to use City real property (such as Licenses, Permits and
Easements) and, (6) banking and other financial or investment services.
G. “Contractor” means any Person that presents a Submittal to the City, enters into a Contract with the City, and/or performs
all or any part of a Contract awarded by the City, for the provision of Public Works, or Non-Public Works and Improvements,
Supplies or Services.
H. “Evaluated Bid” means a Bid that factors each Respondent’s Base Bid including any alternates, deductive and additives
selected by the City that will result in a weighed reduction based on that Respondent’s percentage of SBE participation, as
defined by formula set forth in this chapter or in the SBE Regulations adopted pursuant to this chapter.
I. “Goals” means the annual level of participation by SBEs in City Contracts as established in this chapter, the SBE
Regulations, or as necessary to comply with applicable federal and state nondiscrimination laws and regulations. Goals for
individual Contracts may be adjusted as provided for in this chapter and shall not be construed as a minimum for any
particular Contract or for any particular geographical area.
J. “SBE Certified Business” (or “SBEs”) means a business that meets the criteria set forth in Section 1.07.050 of this chapter
and has been certified as meeting that criteria by the Community and Economic Development Department-SBE Program
Coordinator.
K. “SBE Program Coordinator” means the individual appointed, from time to time, by the City’s Community and Economic
Development Director to administer the SBE Regulations.
L. “SBE Regulations” shall mean the written regulations and procedures adopted pursuant to this chapter for procurement of
Supplies, Services and Public Works.
M. “Lowest and Best Responsible Bidder” means the Bidder submitting the lowest Bid received that is within the range of
acceptable bids, that also has the ability to timely perform the Contract bid upon considering such factors as financial
resources, skills, quality of materials, past work record, and ability to comply with state, federal, and local requirements,
including those set forth in the SBE Regulations.
N. “Non-Public Works and Improvements” means all competitively solicited procurement of Supplies and/or Services by the
City not solicited as Public Works.
O. “Person” means individuals, companies, corporations, partnerships, associations, cooperatives, any other legally recognized
business entity, legal representative, trustee, or receivers.
P. “Proposal” means a written offer to furnish Supplies or Services in response to a Request for Proposals. This term may be
further defined in the Purchasing Policy Manual and/or in competitive solicitations issued by the City.
Q. “Public Works (or “Public Works and Improvements)” means all work, construction, alteration, repair, or improvement
other than ordinary maintenance, executed at the cost of the City, or that is by law a lien or charge on any property therein.
This term includes all Supplies, materials, tools, and equipment to be furnished in accordance with the Contract for such work,
construction, alteration, repair, or improvement.
R. “Quote” means a competitively solicited written offer to furnish Supplies or Services by a method of procurement that is
less formalized than a Bid or a Proposal. This term may be further defined in the Purchasing Policy Manual.
S. “Respondent” means any entity or Person, other than a City employee, that provides a Submittal in response to a request for
Bids, Request for Proposals, Request for Qualifications, request for quotes or other request for information, as such terms are
defined in Section 1.06.251 TMC. This term includes any such entity or Person whether designated as a supplier, seller,
vendor, proposer, Bidder, Contractor, consultant, merchant, or service provider that; (1) assumes a contractual responsibility
to the City for provision of Supplies, Services, and/or Public Works; (2) is recognized by its industry as a provider of such
Supplies, Services, and/or Public works; (3) has facilities similar to those commonly used by Persons engaged in the same or
similar business; and/or (4) distributes, delivers, sells, or services a product or performs a Commercially Useful Function.
T. “Services” means non-Public Works and Improvements services and includes professional services, personal services, and
purchased services, as such terms are defined in Section 1.06.251 TMC and/or the City’s Purchasing Policy Manual.
U. “Submittal” means Bids, Proposals, Quotes, qualifications or other information submitted in response to requests for Bids,
Requests for Proposals, Requests for Qualifications, requests for Quotations, or other City requests for information, as such
terms are defined in Section 1.06.251 TMC.
V. “Supplies” means materials, Supplies, and other products that are procured by the City through a competitive process for
either Public Works procurement or Non-Public Works and Improvements procurement unless an approved waiver has been
granted by the appropriate authority.


     PI19-0101F
(Revised 3/2019)                                              1-56                                              Page
                                                                                                                 City74 of 99Office
                                                                                                                     Clerk’s
                                                                                                         Tacoma Municipal Code

(Ord. 28274 Ex. A; passed Dec. 16, 2014: Ord. 28141 Ex. A; passed Mar. 26, 2013: Ord. 27867 Ex. A; passed Dec. 15, 2009)

1.07.030        Discrimination prohibited.
A. No person that is engaged in the construction of public works for the City, engaged in the furnishing of laborers or
craftspeople for public works of the City, or is engaged for compensation in the provision of non-public works and
improvements supplies and/or services to the City, shall discriminate against any other person on the basis of race, religion,
color, national origin or ancestry, sex, gender identity, sexual orientation, age, marital status, familial status, or the presence of
any sensory, mental or physical disability in employment. Such discrimination includes the unfair treatment or denial of
normal privileges to a person as manifested in employment upgrades, demotions, transfers, layoffs, termination, rates of pay,
recruitment of employees, or advertisement for employment.
B. The violation of the terms of RCW 49.60 or Chapter 1.29 TMC by any person that is engaged in the construction of public
works for the City, is engaged in the furnishing of laborers or craftspeople for public works of the City, or is engaged for
compensation in the provision of non-public works and improvements supplies and/or services shall result in the rebuttable
presumption that the terms of this chapter have also been violated. Such violation may result in termination of any City
contract the violator may have with the City and/or the violator’s ineligibility for further City Contracts.
(Ord. 27867 Ex. A; passed Dec. 15, 2009)

1.07.040        Program administration.
A. The Community and Economic Development Director, or his or her designated SBE Program Coordinator, shall be
responsible for administering this chapter and obtaining compliance with respect to contracts entered into by the City and/or
its contractors. It shall be the duty of the Director to pursue the objectives of this chapter by conference, conciliation,
persuasion, investigation, or enforcement action, as may be necessary under the circumstances. The Director is authorized to
implement an administrative and compliance program to meet these responsibilities and objectives.
B. The Director is hereby authorized to adopt and to amend administrative rules and regulations known as the SBE
Regulations to properly implement and administer the provisions of this chapter. The SBE Regulations shall be in
conformance with City of Tacoma policies and state and federal laws and be designed to encourage achievement of the SBE
goals set forth herein. The SBE Regulations shall become effective following public notice and an opportunity to comment by
the public.
C. The SBE Regulations adopted pursuant to this section are for the administrative and procedural guidance of the officers and
employees of the City and are further expressions of the public policy of the City. The SBE Regulations, when adopted, shall
not confer an independent cause of action or claim for relief cognizable in the courts of the state of Washington or the United
States of America to any third parties, and such provisions shall not be used as the basis for a lawsuit in any court of
competent jurisdiction challenging the award of any contract by the City.
(Ord. 28141 Ex. A; passed Mar. 26, 2013: Ord. 28110 Ex. B; passed Dec. 4, 2012: Ord. 27867 Ex. A; passed Dec. 15, 2009)

1.07.050        Certification.
A. The SBE Program Coordinator shall approve a person as a SBE Certified Business if all of the following criteria are
satisfied:
1. Each person with an ownership interest in the company has a personal net worth of less than $1,320,000 excluding one
personal residence and the net worth of the business;
2. The company’s total gross receipts for any consecutive three year period within the last six years is not more than
$36,500,000 for public works companies and not more than $15,000,000 for non-public works and improvements companies;
3. The owner(s) of the company executes an Affidavit of Small Business Enterprise Certification and files it with the City
which states that all information submitted on the SBE application is accurate, that the business has sought or intends to do
business with the City and/or within the Pierce County area and has experienced or expects to experience difficulty competing
for such business due to financial limitations that impair its ability to compete against larger firms; and
4. The company can demonstrate that it also meets at least one of the following additional requirements:
a. The company’s business offices, or the personal residence of the owner, is located within a City of Tacoma designated
Renewal Community/Community Empowerment Zone, prior to designation as a SBE, or
b. The company’s business offices, or the personal residence of the owner, is located within the City of Tacoma for at least six
months prior to designation as a SBE; or



      PI19-0101F
City Clerk’s Office                                             1-57                                                Page 75 of 3/2019)
                                                                                                                      (Revised 99
                                                                                                    Tacoma Municipal Code

c. The company’s business offices are located in a federally designated HUBZONE in Pierce County or any adjacent county
for at least 12 months prior to designation as a SBE; or
d. The company’s business offices are located in a federally designated HUBZONE in a County wherein the work will be
performed, or an adjacent county, for at least 12 months prior to designation as a SBE.
B. Application Process. The SBE Program Coordinator shall make the initial determination regarding certification or
recertification. Each SBE applicant shall provide the following documents; as such documents are more fully described in the
SBE Regulations, to the SBE Program Coordinator:
1. A completed Statement of Personal Net Worth form;
2. A completed, signed, and notarized Affidavit of Small Business Enterprise Certification that affirms compliance with the
certification and documentation requirements of this section;
3. List of equipment and vehicles used by the SBE;
4. Description of company structure and owners;
5. Such additional information as the SBE Program Coordinator or designee may require.
When another governmental entity has an equivalent SBE classification process the City may enter into an interlocal
cooperative agreement for mutual recognition of certifications.
C. Recertification. A SBE qualified business shall demonstrate annually to the satisfaction of the SBE Program Coordinator
that the following SBE qualifications are still in effect for such business:
1. That the company still meets all of the criteria set forth in subsection 1.07.050.A. TMC, and
2. That the company has maintained all applicable and necessary licenses in the intervening period, and
3. That the company demonstrates that the owner and/or designated employees have completed the minimum annual
continuing business education training requirements set forth in the SBE Regulations.
D. Appeals. The applicant may appeal any certification determination by the SBE Program Coordinator under this chapter to
the Director. The appeal must be made in writing and must set forth the specific reasons for the appeal. The Director shall
make a decision on the appeal request within a reasonable time, which decision shall be final unless further appeal is made to
the Hearing Examiner. In that event, the Hearing Examiner Rules of Procedure for Hearings, Chapter 1.23 TMC, shall be
applicable to that appeal proceeding.
(Ord. 28274 Ex. A; passed Dec. 16, 2014: Ord. 28147 Ex. A; passed May 7, 2013: Ord. 28141 Ex. A; passed Mar. 26, 2013:
Ord. 28110 Ex. B; passed Dec. 4, 2012: Ord. 27867 Ex. A; passed Dec. 15, 2009)

1.07.060      Program requirements.
A. Establishment of Annual SBE Goals. The SBE Regulations adopted pursuant to this chapter shall state reasonably
achievable cumulative annual goals for utilization of SBEs in the provision of supplies, services, and public works procured
by the City. Cumulative annual goals for the participation of SBEs in City contracts shall be based on the number of qualified
SBEs operating within Pierce County or in a county that is adjacent to Pierce County or in a HUBZone in a county where the
supplies, services and/or public works will be delivered or performed. The dollar value of all contracts awarded by the City to
SBEs in the procurement of supplies, services, and public works shall be counted toward the accomplishment of the applicable
SBE goal. The initial cumulative annual SBE goal for all public works, non-public works and improvements supplies and
services procured by the City of Tacoma is 22 percent.
B. Revision of Annual SBE Goals. SBE utilization goals for supplies, services, and public works shall be reviewed annually to
determine the total level of SBE participation reasonably attainable. If no certified SBEs are available to provide supplies,
services, and/or public works, the dollar value of such supplies, services, or public works shall be exempt from the calculation
of the cumulative annual goals set forth in the SBE Regulations. Proposed reduction of the cumulative annual SBE goals shall
be in accordance with the SBE Regulations.
C. Application of SBE Goals to Contracts. The SBE Program Coordinator shall consult with City departments/divisions to
establish the SBE goal for competitively solicited contracts of $25,000 and above, in accordance with this chapter and the
SBE Regulations. No SBE goal will be established if no certified SBEs are available to provide supplies, services and/or
public works.
D. Waivers. City departments/divisions or the SBE Program Coordinator may request to waive one or more of the
requirements of this chapter as they apply to a particular contract or contracts. Waivers may be granted in any one or more of
the following circumstances:


     PI19-0101F
(Revised 3/2019)                                             1-58                                             Page
                                                                                                               City76 of 99Office
                                                                                                                   Clerk’s
                                                                                                      Tacoma Municipal Code

1. Emergency: The supplies, services and/or public works must be provided with such immediacy that neither the City nor the
contractor can comply with the requirements herein. Such emergency and waiver must be documented by the
department/division awarding the contract.
2. Not Practicable: Compliance with the requirements of this chapter would impose an unwarranted economic burden or risk
to the City after consideration of existing budgetary approvals.
3. Sole source: The supplies, services, and/or public works are available from only one source, and subcontracting possibilities
do not reasonably exist as determined by the finance purchasing manager.
4. Government purchasing. The City is a party to or included in a federal, state or inter-local government purchasing
agreement as approved by the finance purchasing manager.
5. Lack of SBEs: An insufficient number of qualified SBE contractors exist to create SBE utilization opportunities.
6. Best interests of the City: Waiver of SBE goals is in the best interests of the City due to unforeseen circumstances, provided
that said circumstances are set forth in writing by the requestor.
E. Review of Waivers. A waiver determination by the finance purchasing manager may be reviewed by the Board of Contracts
and Awards (C&A Board). The C&A Board may also review a request to reduce or waive the SBE utilization goals based on
Not Practicable or Best Interests of the City circumstances. The C&A Board shall determine whether compliance with such
goals would impose unwarranted economic burden on, or risk to, the City of Tacoma as compared with the degree to which
the purposes and policies of this chapter would be furthered by requiring compliance. If the determination of the C&A Board
does not resolve the matter, a final determination shall be made by the City Council or Public Utility Board, as the case may
be.
(Ord. 28141 Ex. A; passed Mar. 26, 2013: Ord. 27867 Ex. A; passed Dec. 15, 2009)

1.07.070        Evaluation of submittals.
A. All submittals for a supplies, services, or public works and improvements contract valued at $25,000 or more shall be
evaluated for attainment of the SBE goal established for that contract in accordance with this chapter and the SBE
Regulations.
B. The determination of SBE usage and the calculation of SBE goal attainment per this section shall include the following
considerations:
1. General. The dollar value of the contract awarded by the City to a SBE in the procurement of supplies, services, or public
works shall be counted toward achievement of the SBE goal.
2. Supplies. A public works and improvements contractor may receive credit toward attainment of the SBE goal for
expenditures for supplies obtained from a SBE; provided such SBE assumes the actual and contractual responsibility for
delivering the supplies with its resources. The contractor may also receive credit toward attainment of the SBE goal for the
amount of the commission paid to a SBE resulting from a supplies contract with the City; provided the SBE performs a
commercially useful function in the process.
3. Services and Public Works subcontracts. Any bid by a certified SBE or a bidder that utilizes a certified SBE shall receive
credit toward SBE goal attainment based on the percentage of SBE usage demonstrated in the bid. A contractor that utilizes a
SBE-certified subcontractor to provide services or public works shall receive a credit toward the contractor’s attainment of the
SBE goal based on the value of the subcontract with that SBE.
4. Brokers, Fronts, or Similar Pass-Through Arrangements. SBEs acting as brokers, fronts, or similar pass-through
arrangements (as such terms are defined in the SBE Regulations) shall not count toward SBE goal attainment unless the
activity reflects normal industry practices and the broker performs a commercially useful function.
C. Evaluation of competitively solicited submittals for public works and improvements and for services when a SBE
utilization goal has been established for the contract to be awarded shall be as follows:
1. When contract award is based on price. The lowest priced bid submitted by a responsive and responsible bidder will be
reviewed to determine if it meets the SBE goal. Such low bid shall be determined to meet the SBE goal if the bidder is a
certified SBE.
a. If the low bidder meets the SBE goal, the bid shall be presumed the lowest and best responsible bid for contract award.
b. If the lowest priced bid does not meet the SBE goal, but the bid of any other responsive and responsible bidder does, and
such other bid(s) is or are priced within five percent of the lowest bid, then the following formula shall be applied to each such
other bid:


      PI19-0101F
City Clerk’s Office                                           1-59                                              Page 77 of 3/2019)
                                                                                                                  (Revised 99
                                                                                                       Tacoma Municipal Code

                          SBE Usage
                          Percentages
      (Base Bid) -                        X (.05 X Low Base Bid)            = Evaluated Bid
                           SBE Goal
                          Percentages
c. The lowest evaluated bid after applying said evaluation formula shall be presumed the lowest and best responsible bid for
contract award.
d. In no event shall a bidder’s evaluated bid price be adjusted more than 5 percent from its base bid price for purposes of
contract award.
2. When contract award is based on qualifications or other performance criteria in addition to price. Solicitations shall utilize a
scoring system that promotes participation by certified SBEs. Submittals by respondents determined to be qualified may be
further evaluated based on price using the formula applicable to price based contract awards above. The SBE Regulations may
establish further requirements and procedures for final selection and contract award, including:
a. Evaluation of solicitations for Architectural and Engineering (A&E) services;
b. Evaluation and selection of submittals in response to requests for proposals; and
c. Selection of contractors from pre-qualified roster(s).
D. Evaluation of competitively solicited submittals for supplies when no SBE utilization goal has been established for the
contract to be awarded shall encourage SBE participation as follows:
1. A submittal from a responsive certified SBE that is priced within five percent of the otherwise lowest responsive bid shall
be recommended for award. Otherwise, the lowest responsive bidder shall be recommended for contract award.
E. The SBE Regulations may establish further SBE goal evaluation requirements and procedures for award of contracts
between $5,000 and $25,000.00 and for non-competitively solicited contracts. City departments/divisions shall use due
diligence to encourage and obtain SBE participation for supplies, services, and public works contracts under $5,000.
(Ord. 28141 Ex. A; passed Mar. 26, 2013: Ord. 27867 Ex. A; passed Dec. 15, 2009)

1.07.080      Contract compliance.
A. The contractor awarded a contract based on SBE participation shall, during the term of the contract, comply with the SBE
goal established in said contract. To ensure compliance with this requirement following contract award, the following
provisions apply:
1. Any substitutions for or failure to utilize SBEs projected to be used must be approved in advance by the SBE Program
Coordinator. Substitution of one SBE with another shall be allowed where there has been a refusal to execute necessary
agreements by the original SBE, a default on agreements previously made or other reasonable excuse; provided that the
substitution does not increase the dollar amount of the bid.
2. Where it is shown that no other SBE is available as a substitute and that failure to secure participation by the SBE identified
in the solicitation is not the fault of the respondent, substitution with a non-SBE shall be allowed; provided, that, the
substitution does not increase the dollar amount of the bid.
3. If the SBE Program Coordinator determines that the contractor has not reasonably and actively pursued the use of
replacement SBE(s), such contractor shall be deemed to be in non-compliance.
B. Record Keeping. All contracts shall require contractors to maintain relevant records and information necessary to document
compliance with this chapter and the contractor's utilization of SBEs, and shall include the right of the City to inspect such
records.
(Ord. 28141 Ex. A; passed Mar. 26, 2013: Ord. 27867 Ex. A; passed Dec. 15, 2009)

1.07.090      Program monitoring.
A. The SBE Program Coordinator shall monitor compliance with all provisions of this chapter and the SBE Regulations. The
SBE Program Coordinator shall establish procedures to collect data and monitor the effect of the provisions of this chapter to
assure, insofar as is practical, that the remedies set forth herein do not disproportionately favor one or more racial, gender,
ethnic, or other protected groups, and that the remedies do not remain in effect beyond the point that they are required to
eliminate the effects of under utilization in City contracting. The SBE Program Coordinator shall have the authority to obtain




     PI19-0101F
(Revised 3/2019)                                              1-60                                              Page
                                                                                                                 City78 of 99Office
                                                                                                                     Clerk’s
                                                                                                      Tacoma Municipal Code

from City departments/divisions, respondents, and contractors such relevant records, documents, and other information as is
reasonably necessary to determine compliance.
B. The SBE Program Coordinator shall submit an annual report to the Community and Economic Development Director,
Director of Utilities, and the City Manager detailing performance of the program. The report shall document SBE utilization
levels, waivers, proposed modifications to the program, and such other matters as may be specified in the SBE Regulations.
(Ord. 28141 Ex. A; passed Mar. 26, 2013: Ord. 28110 Ex. B; passed Dec. 4, 2012: Ord. 27867 Ex. A; passed Dec. 15, 2009)

1.07.100        Enforcement.
The Director, or his or her designee, may investigate the employment practices of contractors to determine whether or not the
requirements of this chapter have been violated. Such investigation shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures
established in the SBE Regulations.
(Ord. 28141 Ex. A; passed Mar. 26, 2013: Ord. 28110 Ex. B; passed Dec. 4, 2012: Ord. 27867 Ex. A; passed Dec. 15, 2009)

1.07.110        Remedies.
A. Upon receipt of a determination of contractor violation by the SBE Program Coordinator, the City Manager or Director of
Utilities, as appropriate, may take the following actions, singly or together, as appropriate:
1. Forfeit the contractor’s bid bond and/or performance bond;
2. Publish notice of the contractor’s noncompliance;
3. Cancel, terminate, or suspend the contractor’s contract, or portion thereof;
4. Withhold funds due contractor until compliance is achieved; and/or
5. Recommend appropriate action including, but not limited to, disqualification of eligibility for future contract awards by the
City (debarment) per Section 1.06.279 TMC;
B. Prior to exercise of any of the foregoing remedies, the City shall provide written notice to the contractor specifying the
violation and the City’s intent to exercise such remedy or remedies. The notice shall provide that each specified remedy
becomes effective within ten business days of receipt unless the contractor appeals said action to the Hearing Examiner
pursuant to Chapter 1.23 TMC.
C. When non-compliance with this chapter or the SBE Regulations has occurred, the SBE Program Coordinator and the
department/division responsible for enforcement of the contract may allow continuation of the contract upon the contractor’s
development of a plan for compliance acceptable to the Director.
(Ord. 28141 Ex. A; passed Mar. 26, 2013: Ord. 28110 Ex. B; passed Dec. 4, 2012: Ord. 27867 Ex. A; passed Dec. 15, 2009)

1.07.120        Unlawful acts.
It shall be unlawful for any Person to willfully prevent or attempt to prevent, by intimidation, threats, coercion, or otherwise,
any Person from complying with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 27867 Ex. A; passed Dec. 15, 2009)

1.07.130        Severability.
If any section of this chapter or its application to any Person or circumstance is held invalid by a court of competent
jurisdiction, then the remaining sections of this chapter, or the application of the provisions to other Persons or circumstances,
shall not be affected.
(Ord. 27867 Ex. A; passed Dec. 15, 2009)

1.07.140        Sunset and review of program.
This chapter shall be in effect through and until December 31, 2019, unless the City Council shall determine at an earlier date
that the requirements of this chapter are no longer necessary. If this chapter has not been repealed by July 1, 2019, the City
Council shall determine by the end of that year whether substantial effects or lack of opportunity of SBEs remain true in the
relevant market and whether, and for how long, some or all of the requirements of this chapter should remain in effect.
(Ord. 28274 Ex. A; passed Dec. 16, 2014: Ord. 28141 Ex. A; passed Mar. 26, 2013: Ord. 27867 Ex. A; passed Dec. 15, 2009)




      PI19-0101F
City Clerk’s Office                                           1-61                                               Page 79 of 3/2019)
                                                                                                                   (Revised 99
                      APPENDIX D

             2.06   TECHNICAL PROVISIONS




PI19-0101F                                 Page 80 of 99
2.06         TECHNICAL PROVISIONS

Technical Requirements for Project and Portfolio Management Solution

2.06.1       Guidelines for completing the Technical Requirements Response Form (Appendix A).

             A. The requirements have been organized by category and are not in any order of
                priority.

             B. Use the Capabilities Options (see Table 1 below) to complete the Technical
                Requirements Response Form, which will determine Respondent’s technical score.
                It is imperative that answers to questions be provided as directed below.
                Responses will be validated during the proof-of-concept activities. Failure to
                provide honest responses will be grounds for disqualification from the RFP
                process.

             C. Choose from five options to indicate compliance with each requirement (see Table
                1 below) on the Technical Requirements Response Form (Appendix A).
Table 1. Respondent Capabilities Declared
         Option                                      Capabilities
           0         Functionality not provided.
           1         Functionality provided, but requires customized integration with third party.
           2         Functionality provided by the vendor, but requires customization.
           3         Functionality provided seamlessly by third-party products.
           4         Functionality provided out-of-the-box.


         Option Definitions
         0. Functionality not provided: Not included in the proposed application.
         1. Functionality provided, but requires customized integration with third party:
            Respondent has established a relationship with a business partner to provide this
            functionality, but it needs customization or workarounds.
         2. Functionality provided by the vendor, but requires customization: The
            functionality can be accomplished with the Respondent’s products, but some
            customization or workarounds are required.
         3. Functionality provided seamlessly by third-party product: The Respondent has
            established a relationship (for example, as an OEM) with a business partner to
            provide this functionality integrated into its application. No customization or
            workarounds are needed.
         4. Functionality provided out-of-the-box: The Respondent provides the functionality
            from its own codebase. No customization or workarounds are required.

2.06.2 Do not indicate functionality as “included in standard offering” when, in fact, that
       particular feature is in development. When that is the case, note that fact in the
       “Comments” column of the Technical Requirements Response Form (Appendix A) and
       indicate the expected date that such feature will be made available.
         A. By responding in the affirmative to a capability item, Respondent agrees to support
            such a capability in its product.




PI19-0101F                                                                                 Page 81 of 99
2.06.3 The “Comments” column on the Technical Requirements Response Form (Appendix A),
       is provided for clarification and to provide a short commentary to indicate how the
       feature will be met.
2.06.4 For responses on the Technical Requirements Response Form (Appendix A) that result
       in Options 1, 2 or 3, provide costs for the provision of those options in the “Costs”
       column. The costs along with the associated requirements ID are required to be
       recorded on the Price Proposal Form (Appendix A) under the table for
       Customization/Integration/Third-Party Services. Third-Party Services refers to any
       services not directly performed by the Respondent.
2.06.5 If additional licensing is required for third-party products, ensure to record the licensing
       costs on the Price Proposal Form (Appendix A), under the table for “Optional Software
       Licenses/Subscription Fees/Third-Party Products.” Ensure to record the annual renewal
       costs for these products under Software Licenses/Subscription Fees/Third-Party
       Products.
2.06.6 Contractor will be responsible for the design/blueprinting, implementation/configuration,
       data migration/conversion, report/dashboard development, training and acceptance
       testing of the solution in accordance with requirements listed below in this Appendix.
       These are required services. This includes all licenses and warranties, along with all
       technical and business process documentation associated with the solution.




PI19-0101F                                                                               Page 82 of 99
Pipeline Management

 Rqmt. ID    Functionality                               Description
 01.         Product allows for standardized,            Document proposal authoring and
             automated project request collection of     repository, business case creation, filtering.
             multiple types (e.g., ideas, proposals,     Preference is to automate standard or
             work requests, projects) with               default workflow processes for the major
             corresponding data, content,                components of project portfolio
             standardized templates and business         management based on acknowledged best
             rules.                                      practices.
 02.         Product supports the capability to select   Product has the capability to choose from
             different workflows, templates, drop-       different templates based on the specific
             down data, reporting requirements           intake categorization, and/or workflow
             based on project categorization of          selected.
             various categories such as project type,
             or configurable domain.
 03.         Product has the capability to designate     Through the use of timelines, charts,
             and track status of each proposal or        calendars, status indicators.
             current project.
 04.         Product provides ability to standardize
             and capture approvals in the tool,
             throughout the life cycle of the project.
             Configurable based on project type.




PI19-0101F                                                                               Page 83 of 99
Portfolio Management and Strategic Planning

 Rqmt. ID    Functionality                               Description
 05.         Product provides the ability to align       Through the use of flags, fields, categories,
             proposals/projects with business            portfolios.
             objectives and organizational
             strategies.
 06.         Product has the ability to group projects   One to many or many to many.
             into programs and group projects
             and/or programs into portfolios.
 07.         Product has the ability to support          Ability to create/customize project groups
             multiple portfolios, programs and           (programs) and/or portfolios (which could
             projects based on configurable              be groups of programs or projects) to be
             domains, with unique workflows,             used for tracking purposes. Example,
             templates and processes.                    Tacoma Rail, Tacoma Water, Tacoma
                                                         Power; IT projects vs. Construction
                                                         projects.
 08.         Product has the capability to rank or       Includes business criteria as well as
             prioritize projects, programs and           technical criteria, or even "social" criteria to
             proposals on one or more sets of            help enable prioritization.
             criteria.
 09.         Ability to add/manage project intra- and    Ability to add or link dependencies between
             inter-dependencies.                         tasks and projects.
 10.         Allow current projects, programs and        Ability to provide high-level scenario
             proposals to be flexibly and dynamically    alternatives to support decision making. For
             grouped to perform “what-if” modeling       example, modeled scenarios should display
             scenario analysis.                          impacts to budget, schedule, resources,
                                                         etc.
 11.         Display the current health and status of    Out-of-the box, customizable and
             proposals and/or projects and programs      configurable, and user-defined metrics
             in the portfolio to analyze the value,      through the dashboards, red/amber/green
             cost, risk, and business alignment of       indicators, pie charts, bar charts, graphs,
             the “what-if” scenario, to inform the       Gantts.
             target audience.
 12.         Product allows modeling of incoming
             demand against capacity and existing
             portfolio demand.
 13.         Product has the ability to do resource
             leveling/optimization and "what-if"
             analysis.




PI19-0101F                                                                                Page 84 of 99
Project and Time Management

 Rqmt. ID    Functionality                               Description
 14.         Product provides support for industry-      Methodologies include Waterfall, SCRUM,
             recognized project methodologies.           Kanban, Lean, Six Sigma. Please indicate if
                                                         abilities to use the various methodologies
                                                         are included in one tool or if separate
                                                         modules/ components are required.
 15.         Product supports project scheduling         Project scheduling options, including full
             capabilities to accommodate phases,         critical path. Include Gantt and/or PERT
             sub-phases, phase gates, tasks and          charts.
             milestones ("schedule elements").
 16.         Product allows approval gates or phase      Ability to show the approval and/or phase
             gates to be configured as project           gates, and shows the links of the
             milestones.                                 documents required or available for that
                                                         phase.
 17.         Product has the capability to provide for   Each project status can be configured and
             status indicators that can be flagged       set to customer configuration requirements.
             automatically based on data.                Status indicators names are flexible (e.g.:
                                                         scope, quality).
 18.         Product includes a Quality Assurance
             component.
 19.         Product includes a Requirements             Ability to manage requirements.
             Traceability Matrix component or similar
             functionality.
 20.         Product includes a Test Management
             Plan component.
 21.         Product includes a Defect Management
             component.
 22.         Product supports project/program            Ability to define and modify project cost
             budgeting, actuals and forecasting.         estimates, actual expenditures and
                                                         forecasts via direct input or integration.
 23.         Product has the capability for the          Ability to define and then modify the tasks
             creation and maintenance of                 needed to be carried out, at a range of
             organizational work breakdown               granularity.
             structure.
 24.         Product has the capability to allow time    Resource loading on a project-related
             to be planned by resource against           schedule.
             schedule elements.
 25.         Product allows tracking of time to a        Where detailed task or time tracking is not
             project and/or task.                        needed, progress can be entered at a high
                                                         level only.
 26.         Product displays resource capacity and
             availability.
 27.         Product has the ability to allocate role-   For example, assign a functional role,
             and name-based resources to                 rather than a named person to a project
             projects/tasks.                             and vice-versa.
 28.         Ability to assign and schedule              Allows named individuals or flexible
             resources by skill set, availability and    groupings of similarly skilled people (e.g.,
             other criteria.                             "competent JEE developer").




PI19-0101F                                                                               Page 85 of 99
Risk/Issue and Change Management

 Rqmt. ID    Functionality                               Description
 29.         Product provides integrated
             project/program/portfolio risk and issue
             analysis and management functionality.
 30.         Product utilizes a risk register to         Uses common elements e.g.: Risk
             capture risk management status.             Description, Risk Trigger, Probability,
                                                         Impact, Score, Ownership, Treatment,
                                                         Residual Risk, Secondary Risk, Accepted
                                                         Probability, Accepted Impact. Please
                                                         provide screenshots of sample risk
                                                         register(s).
 31.         Product allows each project to be           Qualitative, Quantitative, Discrete
             scored against multiple and "weighted"      Probabilities, Continuous Probability
             risk criteria to achieve a total weighted   Distribution, Relative Risk. Please provide
             risk score for the project, program         sample of the product's Probability and
             and/or portfolio.                           Impact Matrix.
 32.         Product provides integrated project
             change management functionality.




PI19-0101F                                                                              Page 86 of 99
Reporting

 Rqmt. ID    Functionality                               Description
 33.         Product supports real-time drill-down       Summarizes the status of a filterable list of
             and roll-up analysis with graphical         project(s) for Scope, Schedule, Financial
             views of dynamically selected               data, Quality/Defects, Risk/Issues, task
             groupings for Project, Program and          dependencies, change control, resource
             Portfolio-level management                  demand/capacity, benefits
             dashboards.                                 progress/realization, strategic/objective
                                                         alignment. Please provide screenshots of
                                                         sample reports including dashboards.
 34.         Product provides for                        Summarizes visually a filterable list of
             project/program/portfolio Gantt             projects, programs, portfolios. Report
             reporting.                                  should also include start and end dates
                                                         (planned and baseline), percentage
                                                         complete. Ideally should be able to visually
                                                         display baselines, project milestones and
                                                         project dependencies. Please provide
                                                         screenshots of sample reports.
 35.         Product provides for built-in financial     Net present value, Earned Value
             metrics — NPV, EVM, ROI.                    Management, Return on Investment.
 36.         Ability to provide project outcome          For example, to support project
             performance monitoring/reporting.           payback/ROI calculations or benefits
                                                         tracking. Please provide screenshots of
                                                         sample reports including dashboards.
 37.         Out-of-the box, customizable and            Please provide a list of the system-provided
             configurable, and user-defined metrics      metrics and if custom metrics are available,
             through the dashboards,                     what the process is to define and configure
             red/amber/green indicators, pie charts,     user-specified metrics.
             bar charts, graphs, Gantts, budgeting,
             accounting, forecasting, projected
             versus actual expense.
 38.         Product supports financial planning and
             tracking using various financial periods,
             budget account types, cost codes, and
             other budgeting factors.
 39.         Product provides for resource capacity      Dashboards, drill-down, heat maps, etc.
             and demand summary reporting.               Summarizes the demand and available
                                                         capacity of a filtered list of resources across
                                                         a program/portfolio of projects and
                                                         operational commitments. Should be able
                                                         to display the data in configurable time
                                                         periods. Report should also include time
                                                         tracked data. Please provide screenshots of
                                                         sample reports including dashboards, heat
                                                         maps, etc.




PI19-0101F                                                                               Page 87 of 99
 Rqmt. ID    Functionality                              Description
 40.         Product provides for project status        Summarizes the status of the projects
             reporting.                                 including Key Project Data. Flexibility to
                                                        include customer driven report design
                                                        functionality providing the capability to
                                                        configure and design reports based on
                                                        requirements.
 41.         Product allows for annotative notes to     For example, when analyzing at budget
             be collected, per project, per topic.      information, product has ability to capture
                                                        notes on variance, and can be seen by
                                                        project team. Provide screenshots of how
                                                        this shows up in reporting.
 42.         Product provides standard set of "out of   Please provide screenshots of sample
             the box" reports in standard formats       reports including dashboards.
             (e.g., .pdf).




PI19-0101F                                                                             Page 88 of 99
Collaboration

 Rqmt. ID    Functionality                           Description
 43.         Product supports document repository    Please indicate if repository resides within
             and sharing.                            the tool or outside of tool accessible by
                                                     URLs.
 44.         Supports stakeholder engagement         Project visibility, access to documentation,
             outside the immediate project team.     ability to view status reports (without user
                                                     license).
 45.         Product captures lessons learned and    Support for post-implementation reviews.
             includes them as part of a project
             management knowledge database.
 46.         Product captures and reports customer
             satisfaction.




PI19-0101F                                                                         Page 89 of 99
General Usability

 Rqmt. ID    Functionality                              Description
 47.         Product supports the capability to build   Please indicate if this activity can be
             different workflows, templates, drop-      performed by users, system administrator or
             down data, reporting requirements          if professional services are required.
             based on project categorization of
             various categories such as project type,
             or configurable domain.
 48.         Product supports the capability to         Please provide the high level process and
             edit/revise different workflows,           screenshots (if available) of how this would
             templates, drop-down data, reporting       be accomplished. Please indicate if this
             requirements based on project              activity can be performed by users, system
             categorization of various categories       administrator or if professional services are
             such as project type, or configurable      required.
             domain to satisfy unique and changing
             business requirements.
 49.         Product supports user-and project-level    Please also indicate ability to define what
             access and control.                        project information is shared in the view for
                                                        each role.
 50.         Provides completeness/error checks,
             data warnings and spell check for data
             entry.
 51.         Product provides for search, sort and
             filter capabilities.
 52.         System shall allow users to establish
             notifications based upon predefined
             thresholds and criteria around system
             objects.
 53.         Product has a Template Library.
 54.         Ability to support project management      To facilitate data storage and mining.
             knowledge database.
 55.         Product has a project management help      E.g. best practice content is integrated with
             portal.                                    the software application. The Project
                                                        Management Help Portal assists to serve as
                                                        a user reference manual that documents the
                                                        organization's policies and processes.
 56.         A Process Manual is available in           E.g. best practice content is integrated with
             context with the operation of the tool.    the software application. The Process
                                                        Manual assists to serve as a user reference
                                                        training manual on how to utilize the
                                                        product's functionality in context with
                                                        operation of the tool. It should also
                                                        document the logic behind the product
                                                        algorithms.
 57.         Product allows for the upload, and         For example, Microsoft Word, Excel, Project,
             editing within the tool of project         PowerPoint, Visio and .pdf formats.
             documentation in various formats.




PI19-0101F                                                                            Page 90 of 99
 Rqmt. ID    Functionality                            Description
 58.         Product supports baseline plans,         Create baselines and manage multiple
             version control and supports audit       versions of scope, schedule, budget,
             detail.                                  resources, benefits, project document
                                                      artifacts. Minimum requirement is simple
                                                      check in/out and version control for project
                                                      documents.
 59.         Mobile access to the proposed product.   To facilitate access to timesheets and tasks.
                                                      This may be via a native application
                                                      (dashboard review or approvals of various
                                                      phases of activity) or via a mobile browser
                                                      but still taking advantage of the format.




PI19-0101F                                                                          Page 91 of 99
Integration with Existing Toolsets/Systems

 Rqmt. ID    Functionality                              Description
 60.         Product supports full project scheduling   Please indicate if integration is bidirectional or
             through integration with Microsoft         one-way. If one-way, indicate if it is import or
             Project.                                   export from proposed PPM product. Note that
                                                        MS Project Online or Enterprise are not a
                                                        current supported or utilized solutions.
 61.         Product supports integration with          Please indicate if integration is bidirectional or
             Microsoft Excel.                           one-way. If one-way, indicate if it is import or
                                                        export from proposed PPM product.
 62.         Product supports integration with          Please indicate if integration is bidirectional or
             Microsoft SharePoint.                      one-way. If one-way, indicate if it is import or
                                                        export from proposed PPM product.
 63.         Product supports integration with agile    For example, Jira. Please indicate if
             tools.                                     integration is bidirectional or one-way. If one-
                                                        way, indicate if it is import or export from
                                                        proposed PPM product.
 64.         Product supports integration with SAP      For example, for project costing, accounting,
             (ERP system).                              timecard data, employee data, etc. Please
                                                        indicate if integration is bidirectional or one-
                                                        way. If one-way, indicate if it is import or
                                                        export from proposed PPM product.
 65.         Product supports integration with          For task notification/resource assignment,
             Microsoft Outlook email and calendars.     auto-generated status updates, etc.
 66.         Product supports integration with          For example, Tempus software. Please
             resource capacity/demand planning          indicate if integration is bidirectional or one-
             applications.                              way. If one-way, indicate if it is import or
                                                        export from proposed PPM product.




PI19-0101F                                                                              Page 92 of 99
Cloud and Security

 Rqmt. ID    Functionality                             Description
 67.         Access to the application is entirely     Supported browsers should include current
             through web browser with no required      versions of internet explorer, chrome, edge.
             software at the desktop (other than       Indicate if proposed solution requires a
             standard browser based controls).         browser other than these listed.
 68.         Product has the ability to integrate to   For example, Active Directory or LDAP.
             existing security/user registration
             support.
 69.         Customer has the ability to               For example, ability to regularly or on-
             access/download data on-demand.           demand download all project data for backup
                                                       purposes, or if and when a change in
                                                       providers or transition to an on premise
                                                       solution is necessary. Indicate if this action
                                                       requires professional services.
 70.         Support for accessibility standards       Accessible Technology Initiative (ATI) aka
             (e.g., Disability Discrimination Act or   ADA.
             successors or equivalents).




PI19-0101F                                                                           Page 93 of 99
TPU Security Design Standards
Choose from one of the three options to indicate your CSP Designation (see Table 2) and move
through the security review process. When giving responses on the Security Response Form
(Appendix A), the guidelines below should be followed.
Table 2. CSP Designation Declared
     CSP                                  Submittal Guidelines
 Designation
 FedRAMP     If the CSP has the following designation: FedRAMP Authorized:
 Authorized  • Respondent must provide the FedRAMP System Security Plan (SSP) supporting
                the FedRAMP Authorization.
             • Respondent must answer the TPU Cloud Procurement Questions in the Security
                Response Form (Appendix A).
 FedRAMP     If the CSP has the following designation: FedRAMP In Process or FedRAMP Ready:
 In Process  • Respondent must provide the FedRAMP System Security Plan (SSP) supporting
 or             the requested FedRAMP Authorization.
 FedRAMP     • Respondent must provide TPU the completed FedRAMP-Low-or-Moderate-CIS-
 Ready          Workbook-Template submitted to FedRAMP
             • Respondent must answer the TPU Cloud Procurement Questions in the Security
                Response Form (Appendix A).
 No          If the CSP has no FedRAMP designation:
 FedRAMP     • Respondent must provide Security Plans and Security Policies which apply to the
 Designation    Cloud Service.
             • Respondent must provide TPU a completed FedRAMP-Low-or-Moderate-CIS-Workbook-
                 Template (the most recent version). Navigate to the following link to download the latest
                 version of the SSP ATTACHMENT 9 - FedRAMP Low or Moderate Control Implementation
                 Summary (CIS) Workbook Template: https://www.fedramp.gov/templates/. For reference
                 documentation on the FedRAMP Security Controls Baseline, use the following link:
                 https://www.fedramp.gov/assets/resources/documents/FedRAMP_Security_Controls_Baseli
                 ne.xlsx
               • Respondent must answer the TPU Cloud Procurement Questions the Security
                 Response Form (Appendix A).




PI19-0101F                                                                               Page 94 of 99
TPU Core Controls and Audit
The TPU Core Controls are applied with all technology as a base required control. To verify the
proper controls are implemented, TPU Cybersecurity will perform an audit on the system prior to
Go-Live. All outputs from the control should be completed prior to a system going operational.


TPU Core Controls

 TPU Control ID      TPU Control
 TPU.ID.AM-1-1       System name and owners have been documented.

 TPU.ID.AM-1-2       Physical and virtual asset owners have been documented.
 TPU.ID.AM-1-3       Data owners have been documented.
 TPU.ID.AM-1-4       Physical and virtual device Hostnames, Netmask, and Gateway have
                     been documented.
 TPU.ID.AM-2-1       Application owners, application name(s), and application versions have
                     been documented.
 TPU.ID.AM-3-1       All system and asset stakeholders have been identified and documented.

 TPU.ID.BE-5-1       System and component criticality requirements have been identified,
                     addressed, and documented in the architecture.
 TPU.ID.GV-3-1       All legal and regulatory requirements regarding cybersecurity, including
                     public disclosure, contract negotiations, privacy, and civil liberties
                     obligations, are understood and managed.
 TPU.ID.RM-1-1       System data have been categorized as low, medium, or high.

 TPU.ID.RM-1-2       System assets have been categorized as low, medium, or high.
 TPU.PR.AC-1-1       The primary identity manager used by TPU will by Microsoft Active
                     Directory. Systems or assets unable to integrate with Active Directory will
                     work with security to determine an acceptable identity management
                     solution.
 TPU.PR.AC-2-1       Only individuals with documented authorization have access to the
                     physical asset.
 TPU.PR.AC-2-2       Access to the physical asset is monitored and logged.
 TPU.PR.AC-2-3       Unauthorized access attempts to the physical asset is configured to alert.
 TPU.PR.AC-3-1       External remote access (access from the internet) requires multi-factor
                     authentication.
 TPU.PR.AC-3-2       Remote access to the system/asset is monitored and logged.




PI19-0101F                                                                             Page 95 of 99
 TPU Control ID   TPU Control
 TPU.PR.AC-3-3    Unauthorized remote access attempts to the system\asset are configured
                  to alert.
 TPU.PR.AC-4-1    Access permissions to the system, asset(s), and application are
                  documented and managed, incorporating the principles of least privilege
                  and separation of duties.
 TPU.PR.AC-5-1    System ports, protocols and services must be documented and
                  configured to only allow authorized required traffic.
 TPU.PR.AC-5-2    Network devices will be configured to limit traffic via firewall rules, routing,
                  and network segmentation to ensure only authorized system traffic is
                  allowed.
 TPU.PR.AC-5-3    Implement host based firewalls when technically feasible to ensure only
                  authorized system traffic.
 TPU.PR.DS-1-1    This control is not required for the systems/assets that store and transmit
                  data with a low classification designation. However, if the system or asset
                  is capable of encryption, it must be enabled, configured and documented.
 TPU.PR.DS-2-1    This control is not required for the systems/assets that process and
                  transmit data with a low classification designation. However, if the system
                  or asset is capable of encryption, it must be enabled, configured, and
                  documented.
 TPU.PR.DS-3-1    Document the processes and procedures for managing assets and
                  components throughout the lifecycle of the system. This includes
                  maintenance, upgrades, modifications, and removal.
 TPU.PR.DS-4-1    Capacity resource requirements for the system and/or assets have been
                  documented.
 TPU.PR.DS-4-2    The system and/or assets are monitored for capacity thresholds.
 TPU.PR.IP-1-1    All unnecessary system and asset components will be removed to
                  include applications, drivers, source code, services, and interfaces.
 TPU.PR.IP-1-2    The baseline must include: Network Configurations.
 TPU.PR.IP-1-3    The baseline must include: Application Configurations.
 TPU.PR.IP-1-4    The baseline must include: System Configurations.
 TPU.PR.IP-1-5    The baseline must include: Security Configurations.
 TPU.PR.IP-1-6    The baseline must include: User and Group Configurations.
 TPU.PR.IP-4-1    Backups of systems, assets, and data are documented. Documentation
                  should include roles and responsibilities.
 TPU.PR.IP-4-2    Backups of systems, assets, and data are documented regarding
                  periodicity of backups, maintenance, and testing.
 TPU.PR.IP-9-1    Document and maintain incident response plans to ensure system/asset
                  business continuity. The roles/responsibilities, processes and procedures
                  should be identified and documented.




PI19-0101F                                                                              Page 96 of 99
 TPU Control ID   TPU Control
 TPU.PR.IP-9-2    Document and maintain disaster recovery plans to ensure system/asset
                  business continuity. The roles/responsibilities, processes and procedures
                  should be identified and documented.
 TPU.PR.IP-10-1   All system, asset and data incident response plans are tested.
 TPU.PR.IP-10-2   All system, asset and data disaster recovery plans are tested.
 TPU.PR.IP-12-1   System and asset vulnerabilities have been assessed and mitigated.
 TPU.PR.IP-12-2   A patch management plan has been developed and documented for the
                  system. This plan should include roles/responsibilities and referenced
                  procedures.
 TPU.PR.PT-3-1    TPU utilizes Role Based Access Control to limit the access to systems,
                  assets and applications by incorporating the principle of least
                  functionality. Document the role based access controls to the system,
                  assets and applications based on the principle of least functionality.

 TPU.DE.AE-3-1    Event Logging will be configured and sent to a centralized logging server
                  for event management and alerting. This includes operating system and
                  application logs.
 TPU.DE.CM-4-1    Anti-malware clients must be installed and managed by a centralized
                  server, if technically feasible. If the technology is not capable, a
                  secondary approach will be determined in cooperation with TPU
                  cybersecurity.
 TPU.DE.CM-4-2    Anti-malware definitions shall be updated at a minimum monthly.
 TPU.RS.AN-1-1    Alerts are configured and sent to the system/asset owner(s) or applicable
                  security analyst(s) for review and response.
 TPU.RS.AN-1-2    Roles and responsibilities are identified and documented regarding
                  system notifications and alerts.




PI19-0101F                                                                        Page 97 of 99
User Licensing Requirements
The following is a summary of the estimated number and type of system users. Tacoma Public
Utilities reserves the right to proceed with acquisition of some, all, a reduced or higher number
of the license role types (or proposed equivalents) listed below.
On the License Requirements Response Form (Appendix A), indicate the closest appropriate
licensing match to referenced User Role under the column, "License Account Type" and
indicate if the license is considered a named user or concurrent license. Provide the unit license
pricing and extended license pricing by License Type. Extended licensing costs are required to
be included on the Price Proposal Form (Appendix A).


 User Role         Functionality                                                       Estimated
                                                                                        Number
                                                                                        of Users
 Business User     Submit requests, monitor status of own requests, and provide           <100
                   user sign-off. Perform approvals.

 Project           Create, plan, and monitor project workplans—create and                  <20
 Manager/Lead      update tasks; create/maintain project resource profile; assign
                   resources; schedule, define project exception rules; set
                   notifications; maintain project templates, manage scope
                   changes, issues, and risk. Monitor status and critical path.
                   Manage project expenses and percentage complete. Email
                   updates, messaging. Participate in deployment management.
                   Perform approvals.
 Program           Manage program. Prioritize programs and projects. Manage                <5
 Manager           program and project initiation; monitor resource capacity and
                   utilization; monitor program status, scope changes, issues and
                   risk. Act on exceptions. Create and manage financial
                   summaries for programs. Monitor and compare actuals to
                   forecasts, monitor and/or perform earned value analysis;
                   benefits monitoring and realization. Manage change control.
                   Perform approvals.
 Portfolio         Manage portfolio. Manage rating and prioritization of projects.         <5
 Manager           Perform what-if portfolio scenarios. Evaluate value and mix of
                   current and proposed projects. Rank and rate projects.
                   Prioritize demand. Monitor resource capacity and utilization.
                   Monitor scope changes, issues and risk. Create and manage
                   financial summaries for programs and projects. Monitor and
                   compare actuals to forecast, monitor and/or perform earned
                   value analysis, benefits monitoring and realization. Actively
                   resolve request information, update request information, assign
                   requests, move requests through workflow. Manage change
                   control. Report and Dashboards (read and write).




PI19-0101F                                                                              Page 98 of 99
 User Role       Functionality                                                        Estimated
                                                                                       Number
                                                                                       of Users
 Analyst         Monitor initiative (schedule and cost) status; track issues;             <10
                 monitor scope changes, issues, and risk, maintain project
                 templates; email updates, messaging. Actively resolve request
                 information, update request information, assign requests, move
                 requests through workflow.
 Resource        Create and manage resource pools. Manage resource capacity              <25
 Manager         and use. Review, freeze and approve timesheets. Close, cancel
                 timesheets. Delegate functions. Compare work item forecasts
                 versus actuals.
 Resource        Create and manage resource skills, pools, profiles, and                 <10
 Analyst         capacity.
 Financial       Create and manage financial summaries for departments,                  <10
 Analyst         programs and projects. Track and compare actuals to forecast,
                 perform earned value analysis, benefits monitoring and
                 realization.
 Team            Participate in project tasks and in request processes. Execute         <125
 Members/        project tasks and update task status. Actively resolve requests -
 Consultants/    update request information. Participate in deployment
 Contractors     management. Update applicable timesheets or time against
                 work items.
 Sponsors,       Overall visibility of status and metrics, drill-down to a specific      <25
 Executive       level of detail on requests, task, projects, and packages
 Leadership,     requiring action and further review. Monitor project status and
 Managers        drill-down on exceptions. Ability to view financial summaries,
                 earned value analysis and associated visualizations. Perform
                 approvals.
 Administrator   Common administration functions such as set-up of users;                <5
                 manage licenses; assign security; configure user-defined
                 project information, and configure report types and PPM
                 Dashboard portlets. Configure object types; workflows; request
                 types; and configure business rules. Define resource and
                 regional calendars.




PI19-0101F                                                                            Page 99 of 99
