                                                   TEXAS EDUCATION AGENCY
                                                      William B. Travis Building
                                                    1701 North Congress Avenue
                                                     Austin, Texas 78701-1494

                                            REQUEST FOR PROPOSAL (RFP)
                                                      RFP No.: 701-16-020
                                     Accessible Instructional Materials Outreach
                      Authorized by General Appropriations Act, 84th Legislative Session, Rider 32

                  PROPOSAL DELIVERY LOCATION:                                         REFER INQUIRIES TO:
         Purchasing, Contracts and Agency Services Division                              Angela Lopez
                      Texas Education Agency                                       TEAContracts@tea.texas.gov
                 1701 N. Congress Ave., Rm. 2-125
                       Austin, TX 78701-1494
                          (512) 463-9041

  WITHOUT EXCEPTION - PROPOSAL MUST BE TIME AND DATE STAMPED BY THE TEA PURCHASING,
               CONTRACTS AND AGENCY SERVICES DIVISION OFFICE BEFORE:
                         Wednesday, December 9, 2015 - 2:00 P.M., C.T.

Pursuant to the Provisions of the Texas Government Code §§2156.121 – 2156.127, sealed proposals will be received until the
date and time established for receipt. After receipt, names, prices and other proposal details may only be divulged after award
of a contract, if a contract is awarded. The award notice will be posted to the electronic state business daily at
http://esbd.cpa.state.tx.us/.
Pursuant to Texas Government Code §§2151.004(d) and 2155.131, the Office of the Comptroller of Public Accounts has
delegated authority to the Texas Education Agency (TEA) to conduct this Solicitation and to award a contract for the purposes
stated herein.
All written requests for information will be communicated to all applicants known to TEA. All proposals shall become the property
of the State of Texas upon receipt.
All proposals must be delivered to TEA Purchasing, Contracts and Agency Services (PCAS) Division as required by the
instructions within this Solicitation. All addenda to and interpretation of this Solicitation shall be in writing. The state shall not be
legally bound by an addenda or interpretation that is not in writing.
Proposer understands and agrees that no public disclosures or news releases pertaining to this Solicitation, negotiations,
subsequent award, or any results or findings based on information provided or obtained to fulfill requirements of this Solicitation
shall be made without prior written approval of TEA.
NOTE: Failure to formalize the terms of the proposal by signing the Execution of Offer, Contract Terms and Conditions and
Affirmations will result in disqualification of the offer contained within the proposal. Proposers must indicate in writing and
offer alternative language to any Contract Terms and Conditions that are not feasible with the submission of the
proposal to this Solicitation. If a proposal is signed and submitted without including a specific identification of all Contract
Terms and Conditions to which Proposer takes exception, TEA will not negotiate the Contract Terms and Conditions and
reserves the right to commence negotiations with other proposers.




RFP # 701-16-020                                                                                                     Rev 10.21.15
                                                                   1
TABLE OF CONTENTS
                                                                                Page
SECTION ONE        INTRODUCTION AND PURPOSE
1.1    PURPOSE OF THE REQUEST FOR PROPOSAL (RFP)………………………………………………..3
1.2    BACKGROUND INFORMATION………………………………….……………….………………………..3
1.3    CONTRACT TERM/OPTION TO EXTEND…………………….…………………………………………..3
1.4    BUDGET…………………………………………………………….………………………………...……….3
1.5    PROJECT DESCRIPTION AND REQUIREMENTS.…………….………………………………………..3

SECTION TWO GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS AND STANDARD PROPOSAL REQUIREMENTS
2.1 PROPOSAL SUBMISSION, DATE, AND TIME.…………….……………….………………………………..5
2.2 EXPECTED SEQUENCE OF EVENTS/CRITICAL DATES……………………...…………………………..6
2.3 QUESTIONS RECEIVED PRIOR TO OPENING OF PROPOSALS………….….………………………….6
2.4 STANDARD PROPOSAL REQUIREMENTS)…………………………………………..……………………..7
2.5 STATE NOT RESPONSIBLE FOR PREPARATION COSTS………………….………………………….....7
2.6 DISCLOSURE OF PROPOSAL CONTENT………………………………………………………..…………..7
2.7 HISTORICALLY UNDERUTILIZED BUSINESS (HUB) SUBCONTRACTING
    PLAN………………………………………………………………………………………………………..………7
2.8 CONFLICT OF INTERESTS……………………………………………………………………………………..8

SECTION THREE      PROPOSAL FORMAT AND CONTENT
3.1   PROPOSAL FORMAT AND CONTENT……………………………………………………………………….10
3.2   UNDERSTANDING OF THE PROJECT AND METHODOLOGY………….……………………………….10
3.3   MANAGEMENT PLAN FOR THE PROJECT……………………………………………………………...….10
3.4   TASK ACTIVITY PLAN………………………………………………………………………………………….11
3.5   COST PROPOSAL…………………………………………………………………………………………...….11
3.6   PROPOSER’S FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY………………………………………………………………12

SECTION FOUR       REVIEW OF PROPOSALS
4.1 REVIEW OF PROPOSALS…………………………………………………………………….……………….13
4.2 SELECTION CRITERIA…………………………………………………………………………………………13

SECTION FIVE       CONTRACTUAL REQUIREMENTS
5.1    CONTRACTOR’S PROPOSAL…………………………………….………….……………………………15
5.2    PROJECT REVIEW REQUIREMENT…………………………………….….….…………………………15
5.3    PAYMENT……………………………………………………………………….….…………………………15

SECTION SIX        ATTACHMENTS
ATTACHMENT A – NOTICE OF INTENT TO SUBMIT A PROPOSAL
ATTACHMENT B – EXECUTION OF OFFER, CONTRACT TERMS AND CONDITIONS, AFFIRMATIONS
               AND PROPOSAL PREFERENCES
ATTACHMENT C – HUB SUBCONTRACTING PLAN (HSP) – SEPARATE DOCUMENT
ATTACHMENT D – SUGGESTED FORMAT FOR PROPOSAL COVER PAGE
ATTACHMENT E – SUGGESTED FORMAT FOR BUDGET SUMMARY AND EXPENDITURE REPORT
ATTACHMENT F – SCHEDULE OF TASK COMPLETION



RFP # 701-16-020                                                 Rev 10.21.15
                                         2
SECTION ONE                 INTRODUCTION AND PURPOSE

1.1 PURPOSE OF THE REQUEST FOR PROPOSAL (RFP)
    It is the intent of the Texas Education Agency (TEA) to solicit proposals to provide an accessible
    instructional materials outreach program in accordance with all requirements stated herein. This
    program will provide instructional materials in alternate formats for students with print disabilities,
    including students with dyslexia, who receive educational services under a program authorized by
    the Individuals with Disabilities Education Improvement Act (IDEA) or Section 504 of the
    Rehabilitation Act. This program must provide training regarding the use of these accessible
    instructional materials (AIM) in alternate formats including technical assistance regarding the use of
    technologies designed to present the materials to students.

        Eligible proposers are nonprofit organizations, institutions of higher education, private or public
        companies, individuals, regional education service centers, and departments of education.

1.2 BACKGROUND INFORMATION
    The General Appropriations Act, 84th Legislative Session, Rider 32 authorizes TEA to conduct an
    educational outreach program to provide instructional materials in accessible formats to individuals
    with print disabilities affording reading accommodation and providing instruction and training in the
    use of accessible instructional materials and related assistive technology.

1.3 CONTRACT TERM/OPTION TO EXTEND
    The term of any contract resulting from this RFP shall be from the contract award until August 31,
    2017. The agency, at its own discretion, may extend any contract awarded pursuant to this RFP for
    up to two additional fiscal years under the same or different terms subject to appropriation of funds
    by the Texas Legislature for this project. If the contract is renewed, the first renewal period shall be
    from September 1, 2017, through August 31, 2018, and the second renewal period shall be from
    September 1, 2018 through August 31, 2019.

1.4 BUDGET
    The agency reserves the right to award to one or more contracts as a result of this RFP. Offers must
    include a detailed budget in accordance with the requirements of Section 3.6 of this request for
    proposals. The contract will be a fixed price contract. Costs will be associated with tasks and
    activities identified in the Cost Proposal.

1.5 PROJECT DESCRIPTION AND REQUIREMENTS
        The purpose of this program is to conduct an educational outreach program that provides alternate
        access to state-adopted instructional materials to students with print disabilities including students
        with dyslexia.

1.5.1      The contractor(s) may not charge school districts, campuses or individual students for membership
           or access to materials that will be provided under this contract.
1.5.2      All materials must be student-ready and be available in digital audio and digital text.
1.5.3      The contractor(s) must provide training in the use of accessible instructional materials (AIM) and
           available assistive technologies designed to provide appropriate access to students.
1.5.4      The contractor(s) must include strategies in the proposal that address marketing and distribution to
           reach students not currently receiving services through the program.
1.5.5      The contractor(s) shall house master copies of all materials created under this contract for the
           term of the contract. If the contract is terminated before the end of the contract period, the master
           copies shall be released to TEA or its designee. The master copy must provide audio access and,
           where practicable, simultaneous digital and audio access, and must adhere to DAISY 3 Structure
           Guidelines and EPUB 3 Accessibility Guidelines.
RFP # 701-16-020                                                                                Rev 10.21.15
                                                         3
1.5.6   Proposals must include alternative access to instructional materials, including descriptions of
        graphics, in digital audio format with human voice or computer synthesized speech. Proposals
        must also provide statewide training in the use of these materials and in the use of available
        assistive technologies designed to access them. If applicable, this option must include a method
        to provide simultaneous visual and audio access to instructional materials.

1.5.7   Additional Project Requirements
        A. TEA will monitor and evaluate the equitable, timely provision of appropriate, high-quality
           accessible instructional materials to the school districts.
        B. TEA will require the selected Proposer(s) provide data reports and information that support
           continuous improvement in the selection, acquisition, and use of accessible instructional
           materials.
        C. Selected Proposer must be able to provide and allocate resources sufficient to ensure the
           delivery and sustainability of quality services to students with disabilities who need
           accessible instructional materials for the Texas public school students.
        D. Contractor must provide a detailed process to ensure quality assurance of all materials
           developed under this contract.
        E. All proposals in response to this request must meet the following conditions in order to be
           considered. Failure to meet these conditions shall result in disqualification of proposal and
           the proposal shall receive no further consideration.




RFP # 701-16-020                                                                          Rev 10.21.15
                                                    4
SECTION TWO             GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS AND STANDARD PROPOSAL
REQUIREMENTS

2.1 PROPOSAL SUBMISSION, DATE, AND TIME
    WITHOUT EXCEPTION - PROPOSAL MUST BE TIME AND DATE STAMPED BY THE TEA
    PURCHASING, CONTRACTS AND AGENCY SERVICES DIVISION OFFICE BEFORE:
    Wednesday, December 9, 2015 - 2:00 P.M., Central Time (CT)

    Proposals must be submitted in a sealed envelope (or box as appropriate) with the proposer’s name,
    RFP number, and closing date prominently visible on the envelope/package. If multiple
    envelopes/boxes are used, the proposer should indicate on the package “specific item # of total # of
    items.”

    Facsimile transmissions (FAX) of proposals will not be accepted under any circumstances.
    Proposers must sign the “Execution of Offer, Contract Terms and Conditions, Affirmations, and
    Proposal Preferences” instrument (Attachment B). By signing, the Proposer or the Proposer’s legally
    authorized agent affirms that the all statements within the proposal are true and correct. Discovery of
    any false statement in the proposal is a material breach and shall void the submitted proposal or any
    resulting contracts and Proposer shall also be removed from all contractor lists maintained by the
    state of Texas.

2.1.1   Receipt of Proposals
        To be eligible to be considered for funding, proposals must be received in the Purchasing,
        Contracts, and Agency Services (PCAS) Division Office before 2:00 P.M. (Central Time) on the
        closing date as specified in the Request for Proposal. In establishing the time and date of receipt,
        the Commissioner of Education will rely solely on the time/date stamp of the PCAS Division
        Office.

        Method of Submittal
        Regardless of the method of submitting the proposal—United States Postal Service (USPS),
        United Parcel Service, Federal Express or any other delivery service—the proposal must be
        received in the agency’s PCAS Division Office before 2:00 P.M. (Central Time) on or before
        the closing date in order to be considered.

        Note: TEA WILL NOT accept a USPS postmark and/or round validation stamp, mail receipt with
        the date of mailing stamped by the USPS, a dated shipping label, invoice or receipt from a
        commercial carrier, or any other documentation as proof of receipt of any proposal. Proposers are
        advised that TEA assumes no responsibility, due to any circumstances, for the receipt of a
        proposal after the deadline time and date established in this RFP.

2.1.2   Proposal Delivery
        TEA is open Monday through Friday, 8:00 A.M. to 5:00 P.M., excluding holidays. Proposals will
        not be considered if received in PCAS Office after 2:00 P.M. (Central Time) on the closing date.
        The PCAS Office is located on the 2nd floor of the William B. Travis Bldg., 1701 N. Congress (at
        17th St. and N. Congress, two blocks north of the Capitol) in Rm. 2-125, Austin, TX 78701-1494.
        Please note that all TEA visitors must register with the TEA Receptionist Desk and receive a
        visitors badge to visit any area of the agency. In addition, all visitors must be escorted by a TEA
        employee to the respective area. Be sure to incorporate time for parking and the reception desk
        when delivering proposals in person. The mailing address is:
                Purchasing, Contracts and Agency Services Division, Room 2-125
                Texas Education Agency
                William B. Travis Building
                1701 North Congress Avenue
                Austin, Texas 78701-1494


RFP # 701-16-020                                                                           Rev 10.21.15
                                                     5
2.1.3    Number of Copies of Proposal
         Four (4) flash drives and one original hard copy of the proposal must be submitted. The required
         number of copies of the proposal must be received in the TEA PCAS Division Office before 2:00
         P.M. on the established deadline date. Failure to meet this condition shall result in disqualification
         of the proposal and the proposal shall receive no further consideration. Photocopying is not
         available at TEA.

         Additions or replacements to the proposal will not be accepted after the closing date for receiving
         the proposal in the PCAS Division Office of the Texas Education Agency.

2.1.4    Intent to Submit Proposal
         All prospective proposers should notify the Texas Education Agency in writing of their intent to
         submit a proposal (Attachment A) by November 23, 2015, to the TEA PCAS Division Office via
         email TEAContracts@tea.texas.gov or by FAX (512) 475-1706. Failure to notify the Agency of the
         intent to submit a proposal will not disqualify the proposer from submitting a proposal.

2.2 EXPECTED SEQUENCE OF EVENTS/CRITICAL DATES
        DATE                         EVENT
        Monday, November 9,          Publication of Request for Proposals in the Electronic State
        2015                         Business Daily at http://esbd.cpa.state.tx.us/
        Friday, November 20,         Notice of Intent to submit a proposal is due in the TEA Purchasing,
        2015                         Contracts and Agency Services (PCAS) Division Office by the
                                     specified date & time
         Friday, November 20,        Last day to submit written questions about the RFP to PCAS
         2015                        Division, no later than 5:00 P.M., CT
         Tuesday, December 1,        Publication of Questions and Answers document in the Electronic
         2015                        State Business Daily at http://esbd.cpa.state.tx.us/
         Wednesday, December         Proposal is due in the TEA PCAS Division before 2:00 P.M., CT
         9, 2015
         December 14 – 16, 2015 Evaluation process, oral presentations, and /or negotiations
         December 17, 2015             Selection of Proposer
         January 1, 2016               Beginning date of contract and commencement of work
         August 31, 2017               Ending date of contract
        It should be noted that all of these dates except the final completion date may vary slightly as
        conditions require.

2.3 QUESTIONS RECEIVED PRIOR TO OPENING OF PROPOSALS
    Any person wishing to obtain clarifying information about this Request for Proposal may contact:
                                                 Angela Lopez
                                        TEAContracts@tea.texas.gov

2.3.1    Requests for Additional Information
         In order to ensure order that no prospective proposer may obtain a competitive advantage
         because of acquisition of information unknown to other prospective proposers, any additional
         information, that is different from or in addition to, information provided in the Request for
         Proposal or at the Proposer's Conference will be provided only in response to written inquiries.
         Copies of all such inquiries and the written answers will be posted as an addendum to the
         Request for Proposal at the Electronic State Business Daily (ESBD) at http://esbd.cpa.state.tx.us/
         and the TEA website. The addendum will be updated as needed while the RFP is advertised. The
         proposer’s failure to periodically check the ESBD will in no way release the selected contractor
         from “addenda or additional information” resulting in additional cost to meet the requirements of
         the RFP. NO PHONE INQUIRIES WILL BE ACCEPTED.
RFP # 701-16-020                                                                              Rev 10.21.15
                                                       6
        Any Amendment to this procurement solicitation will be posted as an addendum on the ESBD. If
        proposers do not have Internet access, copies may be obtained through the point of contact listed
        in this RFP. Upon publication of this RFP, besides written inquiries as described above,
        employees and representatives of TEA will not answer questions or otherwise discuss the
        contents of the RFP with any potential contractor or their representatives. If a Proposer fails to
        observe this restriction, that Proposer’s response to this RFP will be disqualified. This restriction
        does not preclude discussions for the purpose of conducting business unrelated to this RFP.
        TEA will not be bound by any communication with Proposer’s other than the written addenda
        issued by the Agency.

2.4 STANDARD PROPOSAL REQUIREMENTS
2.4.1   Proposals that address only part of the requirements contained in this Request for Proposal may
        be considered non-responsive.
2.4.2   Texas Education Agency reserves the right to reject any and all proposals and to negotiate
        portions thereof including the submitted cost proposals/budget.
2.4.3   Texas Education Agency reserves the right to select the proposal based on the best value to the
        state of Texas and the agency. The proposer shall furnish additional information that the
        evaluation team may require in order to complete the evaluation of the proposals submitted.
        Failure to provide the requested material or information may disqualify the proposal.
2.4.4   The Contractor must work with the Agency staff to clarify the design of the materials, project
        design, project activities, and/or other products, and modify these items if necessary.

2.5 STATE NOT RESPONSIBLE FOR PREPARATION COSTS
    The TEA will not be liable for any costs incurred in the preparation and submittal of a proposal.

2.6 DISCLOSURE OF PROPOSAL CONTENT
    After contract award, proposals are subject to release under the Texas Government Code, Chapter
    552, Public Information Act. Proposers must indicate on their proposal cover if their submission
    contains proprietary information. It is recommended that a proposer identify the specific sections
    within the proposal that it considers proprietary.

2.7 HISTORICALLY UNDERUTILZED BUSINESS (HUB) SUBCONTRACTING PLAN
    It is the policy of the TEA to promote and encourage contracting and subcontracting opportunities for
    HUBs in all contracts. Accordingly, TEA has adopted the Policy on Utilization of HUBs. If the TEA
    determines that subcontracting opportunities are probable, then a HUB Subcontracting Plan (HSP) is
    a required element of the Proposal.

2.7.1   Statement of Probability – TEA has determined that subcontracting opportunities are probable
        in connection with this procurement. Therefore, ALL proposers must submit the HSP as a part of
        the response. The proposer shall develop and administer the HSP as a part of the proposer’s
        proposal in accordance with the TEA Policy on Utilization of HUB and state law. Proposer must
        make a good faith effort and solicit a minimum of three Texas certified historically underutilized
        businesses from the state’s Centralized Master Bidders List (CMBL)/HUB Directory for work that
        they cannot complete with their own staff and resources. Proposers must also notify minority or
        women trade organizations or development centers of subcontracting opportunities. Additional
        requirements are listed in the HSP (Attachment C).

        All Proposers are required to submit a HUB Subcontracting Plan (HSP) for this RFP.



RFP # 701-16-020                                                                            Rev 10.21.15
                                                     7
        A. If the Proposer is a HUB, a HSP is still required in order to identify the percentage of the
           work to be performed by subcontractors.
        B. If the Proposer (HUB or non-HUB) is not subcontracting any portion of the work, the Self
           Performance portion of the HSP must be completed and returned with the proposal
           response.

    The HUB Subcontracting goal for this procurement is 26.0% minority, woman-owned and/or veteran
    service disabled owned business participation. In the event proposals have equal scores, the
    proposal with the highest percentage of HUB subcontracting will be awarded the contract.

    The HSP will be incorporated into the contract between the TEA and the selected Proposer.
    Contractors are encouraged to collaborate with TEA to develop mentor protégé opportunities. Under
    TAC Title 34, §20.14, a proposer's participation in a Mentor Protégé Program under TGC §2161.065,
    and the submission of a protégé as a subcontractor in the HUB subcontracting plan constitutes a
    good faith effort for the particular area to be subcontracted with the protégé.

    Proposals that are required to submit a HSP and fail to submit the HSP will be rejected for non-
    compliance with the advertised contract specifications.

    The Contractor awarded the contract will be responsible for maintaining business records
    documenting compliance with HUB Program requirements. The selected Proposer shall submit a
    Progress Assessment Report (PAR) monthly documenting all subcontractor payments made in the
    preceding month. Submission of the PAR is a condition for payment. The selected Contractor shall
    also report all 2nd and 3rd Tier subcontracting in the monthly PAR. PAR’s are due no later than the
    10th day of the following month. The PAR is required to be submitted monthly, even if no activity
    occurred for the month. Reports shall be submitted electronically to the HUBOffice@tea.texas.gov.

2.7.1   How to Find Texas Certified HUBs for Subcontracting Opportunities
        Use the Comptroller’s Centralized Master Bidders List (CMBL) / HUB Directory (make sure to
        check both “HUBs on the CMBL” and “HUBs only” or use “All Contractors”).

        A. Open https://mycpa.cpa.state.tx.us/tpasscmblsearch/index.jsp
        B. Search:  HUBs on CMBL & HUBs only
        C. Selection 1:
            Class Code: # 710-52, audio equipment for the visual and hearing impaired
            Class Code: # 710-92, reading devices (for the vision impaired)
            Class Code: # 715-04, audio and video books, digital
            Class Code: # 915-25, captioned services
            Class Code: # 915-85, voice carry over
            Class Code: # 924-18, educational services, alternative
            To see the items associated with any particular class, click on the Class number in the
            Commodity Book at: http://www.window.state.tx.us/procurement//com_book/index.html
        D. Click Submit Search
        Proposers who are certified as a HUB with the State of Texas are encouraged to submit a
        proposal for the services requested in this RFP.




RFP # 701-16-020                                                                           Rev 10.21.15
                                                     8
2.8 CONFLICT OF INTEREST
    A proposer will not be selected if it has a conflict of interest that will or may arise during the
    performance of its obligations under the contract. For this reason, Proposer’s response to this RFP
    must disclose any existing or potential conflicts of interest or possible issues that might create
    appearances of impropriety relative to the submission of a proposal from Proposer and its proposed
    subcontractors’, possible selection as Successful Proposer, or its performance of the Contract.
    As part of this disclosure requirement, each Proposer must include in its proposal all past and
    present contractual, business, financial or personal relationships between Proposer and TEA and
    between Proposer’s proposed subcontractors, if any, and TEA. For purposes of this disclosure
    requirement, (i) “past” is defined as within the two (2) calendar years prior to the deadline for
    submission of proposals in response to this RFP; (ii) TEA is defined as the statewide elected official
    who heads the agency as well as the agency’s employees or recent former employees; and (iii)
    “recent former employees” are defined as those TEA employees who have terminated agency
    employment within the two (2) calendar years prior to the deadline for submission of proposals in
    response to this RFP. For each item, Proposer must provide a detailed explanation of why Proposer
    does or does not believe such item poses a conflict of interest, potential conflict of interest, or
    appearance of impropriety issue relative to Proposer’s submission of a proposal, possible selection
    as Successful Proposer or its performance of the Contract.

    For purposes of this RFP, “personal relationship” is defined as a current or past connection other
    than a clearly contractual, business, financial, or similar relationship and includes family relationships
    or other connections outside simply providing a response to this RFP. For this purpose, “family
    relationship” means a relationship within the third degree of consanguinity or second degree of
    affinity (see Chapter 573 of the Texas Government Code) which defines these degrees of
    consanguinity and affinity.

    Connections other than such family relationships fall within this definition and must be disclosed if a
    reasonable person could expect the connection to diminish Proposer’s independence of judgment or
    effectiveness in the performance of Proposer’s responsibilities to TEA or the State under the
    Contract. Connections also fall within this definition if a reasonable person could expect the
    connection, within the overall context of Proposer’s submission of a proposal, possible selection as
    Successful Proposer, or its performance of the Contract, to create an issue for the agency’s
    consideration relative to a potential appearance of impropriety or conflict of interest.

    Proposer certifies that they are in compliance with Texas Government Code, Title 6, Subtitle B,
    Section 669.003 of the Government Code, relating to contracting with executive head of a state
    agency. If Section 669.003 applies, proposer will complete the following information in order for the
    bid to be evaluated:

    Name of Former Executive; Name of State Agency; Date of Separation from State Agency; Position
    with Bidder; and Date of Employment with Bidder.

    If the circumstances certified by Proposer change or additional information are obtained subsequent
    to submission of proposals, by submitting a response Proposer agrees that it is under a continuing
    duty to supplement its response under this provision and that the duty to disclosure of any conflicts
    of interest is an ongoing obligation throughout the term of the contract. Proposer shall submit
    updated information as soon as reasonably possible upon learning of any change to their affirmation.




RFP # 701-16-020                                                                             Rev 10.21.15
                                                     9
SECTION THREE               PROPOSAL FORMAT AND CONTENT

 3.1 PROPOSAL FORMAT AND CONTENT
        Proposals must be written entirely on 8 ½” X 11” white paper and must be limited to 30 pages not
        including appendices and attachments. Proposals should be stapled in the top left corner or if bound
        may be bound in no more than a 3-ring binder. Proposals must be submitted in a manner which
        does not carry any benefit, keepsake, or value for members of the review panel.

3.1.1      Proposal Cover Page
           Proposals should include a cover page, which clearly states the name of the firm or organization
           and the name, position, and telephone number of the Proposer’s Project Administrator who may
           be contacted regarding the proposal (Attachment D).

3.1.2      Response Checklist
           This checklist is to assist Proposers in ensuring that all information is included in their response.
           Proposers must refer to the appropriate section of the RFP for detailed information on the
           following:

                   RFP Cover Sheet                                               Sec. 3.1.1/Attachment D
                   Understanding of the Project and Methodology                  Sec. 3.2
                   Management Plan                                               Sec. 3.3
                   Task Activity Plan                                            Sec. 3.4/Attachment F
                   Cost Proposal                                                 Sec. 3.5/Attachment E
                   Proposer’s Financial Responsibility                           Sec. 3.6
                   Signed Execution of Offer, Affirmation of Terms and
                   Conditions, and Proposal Preferences                          Attachment B
                   HUB Subcontracting Plan (HSP)                                 Attachment C


3.2 UNDERSTANDING OF THE PROJECT AND METHODOLOGY
    The proposal must communicate an understanding of the different types of alternative format
    materials and instructional material process in the areas of the education and both DAISY 3 structure
    and EPUB 3 accessibility guidelines. Proposer must be able to describe the tasks to be performed,
    and identify potential problems in the conduct of the project and methods to identify and solve such
    problems.

    The Proposer must describe clearly, specifically, and as completely as possible, the methodology for
    carrying out the objectives and requirements of the project as described in this RFP. If applicable,
    the proposer must also describe the training program, staff development, and equipment and
    accessibility features and design.

    The proposal must describe the project design, project activities, materials, and other products,
    services, and reports to be generated during the contract period and relate them to the stated
    purposes and specifications described in the RFP. Technical evidence relating to the proposer's
    ability to perform the proposed services must be appended to the proposal.

    Failure to meet these conditions shall result in disqualification of proposal and the proposal shall
    receive no further consideration.

3.3 MANAGEMENT PLAN FOR THE PROJECT
    The Proposer must provide satisfactory evidence of capability to manage and coordinate the types of
    activities described in the RFP and to produce the specified product(s) or service(s) to Texas schools
RFP # 701-16-020                                                                                Rev 10.21.15
                                                         10
    requesting the student and educator products or services on time. To provide information on
    qualifications to accomplish the described tasks, proposers must include in this section the following
    information:

3.3.1   Structure of the organization
3.3.2   Indications of the ability to perform the tasks described in section 1.5
3.3.3   Evidence that the Proposer has experience through working on similar projects
3.3.4   Three (3) current references that include the name of the Agency or entities, the nature of the
        project, kinds of activities that were performed by the proposer must be described, and the name
        and phone number of a contact person from each employing agency/entity must be provided.
        Names given as references will not affect the scoring. In addition, no employees of TEA can be
        listed in the proposal as references. They may be listed in a memo transmitting the proposal, but
        not in the proposal. If the proposer plans to use external consultants or subcontractors, a staff
        organization and resumes of consultants and/or subcontractors must be included.
3.3.5   Name of the Proposer’s Project Manager who will direct the overall project throughout the
        duration of the contract as well as those of staff members who will coordinate major activities
        during each phase of the contract, and the time allocations that the personnel described will
        devote to fulfillment of the contract. Proposers must also identify the next level of authority within
        the organization to escalate issues throughout the term of the contract. The information will be
        required during the contract kick-off meeting. (Resumes of all project staff members shall be
        submitted as an appendix.) If the resumes include references, the references will not be
        considered in the review.

3.4 TASK/ACTIVITY PLAN
    Proposer must plan for a project starting date of no earlier than January 15, 2016, and an ending
    date of no later than August 31, 2017 if selected as the contractor. The proposer must submit a
    task/activity plan specifying to the degree possible the tasks and activities which are to be
    undertaken. Timelines showing beginning and ending dates for each major task are to be included,
    as well as the name(s) of person(s) responsible for each task. Activities must be sufficiently designed
    and outlined in the task/activity plan that will provide evidence of satisfactory delivery of services and
    products. Time frames must be logical and appropriate to complete all activities within the beginning
    and ending dates of the contract. Failure to meet this condition shall result in disqualification of
    proposal and the proposal shall receive no further consideration.

3.5 COST PROPOSAL
    The Proposer must submit a budget detailing costs necessary to accomplish the project objectives
    and activities outlined in the task/activity plan (Attachment E, Suggested Format for Budget
    Summary and Expenditure Report). It is recommended that budget detail be submitted in Excel
    compatible or Excel format.

    Expenditure used in the budget summary may vary depending on the project. Costs must be
    justified, in terms of activities and objects of expenditure and must be reasonable (i.e., consistent
    with current market price) and necessary to accomplish the objectives of the project as described in
    the federal guidelines §200. The budget must evidence that financial resources are adequately and
    appropriately allocated among cost categories in a cost-effective and prudent business manner to
    accomplish project objectives and activities. Services to be purchased from other agencies,
    subcontractors, including any amounts subcontracted to HUBs, consultants, and others must be
    specified.

    This section of the proposal must also contain a proposed Schedule of Task Completion (Attachment
    F) which ensures completion of tasks and the delivery of products by specified dates. Payment will
    be made upon satisfactory performance of services, receipt by the Texas Education Agency of
    specified deliverables, and receipt of properly prepared and certified invoices/expenditure reports.
RFP # 701-16-020                                                                             Rev 10.21.15
                                                     11
    Failure to meet these conditions shall result in disqualification of proposal and the proposal shall
    receive no further consideration.

3.6 PROPOSER’S FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
3.6.1   All private sector companies, individuals, or non-profit organizations will be required to submit
        prior to award indicators of financial stability. For example:
        A. Private companies may be asked to submit their most recent audited financial statement or a
           certified public accountant-compiled financial report;
        B. Nonprofits may be asked to submit an audited financial statement, a certified public
           accountant-compiled financial report, or similar document; and
        C. Individuals may be asked to submit those documents which depict their financial stability,
           such as an audited proprietorship financial statement, statement from a certified public
           accountant or banker, or a statement from contractors or suppliers.
3.6.2   Nonprofit organizations will also be required to submit proof of nonprofit status. A proposer may
        show that it is a nonprofit organization by any of the following means:
        A. A copy of a letter from the Internal Revenue Service recognizing that contributions to the
           organization are tax deductible under Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code;
        B. A statement from a state taxing body or the state attorney general certifying that the
           organization is a nonprofit organization operating within the state and that no part of its net
           earnings may lawfully benefit any private shareholder or individual;
        C. A certified copy of the proposer's certificate of incorporation or similar document if it clearly
           establishes the nonprofit status of the proposer; or
        D. Any item described above if that item applies to a state or national parent organization,
           together with a statement by the parent organization that it is a local nonprofit affiliate.
        Failure to meet this condition, if requested, shall result in a non-award. TEA will commence
        negotiations with the next high point proposer.




RFP # 701-16-020                                                                             Rev 10.21.15
                                                     12
SECTION FOUR               REVIEW OF PROPOSALS

4.1 REVIEW OF PROPOSALS
        Review of proposals will begin as soon as practical after receipt. The Proposers receiving the most
        favorable ratings during the first round of selection will be asked to send a representative to Austin,
        Texas, at a time and place to be arranged for oral presentation of proposals. Proposals will be rated
        again following oral presentations. The evaluation team shall consist of TEA staff knowledgeable in
        the content area, and may also include reviewers from outside the Agency with expertise in the area.
        The recommendations of the review panel will be assembled and presented to senior executive
        agency staff who will:
4.1.1      Approve the proposal in whole or in part;
4.1.2      Disapprove the proposal; or
4.1.3      Defer action on the proposal for such reasons as a requirement for further evaluation.
    By law, the Agency may not disclose any information until a contract is executed by both parties.
    Upon contract award, TEA will post the contract award notice to the Electronic State Business Daily
    (ESBD) at: http://esbd.cpa.state.tx.us/. Additional copies of proposals not selected for funding will
    be destroyed in accordance with the agency approved records retention policy.

4.2 SELECTION CRITERIA
    Proposals will be selected based on the ability of each Proposer to carry out all of the requirements
    contained in this Request for Proposal. A proposer who is in default or otherwise not in good
    standing under any other current or prior contract with TEA at the time of selection will not be eligible
    for award of this contract. TEA will base its selection on, among other things, demonstrated
    competence, qualifications of the proposer, past contractor performance, and the proposed
    budget/cost. All state agencies report unsatisfactory contractor performance on purchases over
    $25,000. Agencies report satisfactory and exceptional contractor performance to assist in
    determining best value. In accordance with Texas Government Code, §2155.074 and §2155.75,
    contractor performance shall be used as a factor in future contract awards.

    Following are the criteria and the total number of points of each portion of the RFP that will be
    applied in selecting a Contractor:

                                                                                                  POSSIBLE
          CATEGORIES
                                                                                                  POINTS
          A. Quality of Technical Component
                                                                                             30
             1. Clear description of details for carrying out project (10)
             2. Ability to provide instructional materials in accessible formats (10)
             3. Ability and experience providing training to educators of the equipment used
                 by the students (10)
          B. Quality of Management Component
                                                                                             40
             1. Evidence of capability to manage project (10)
             2. Past experience of the company in providing accessible materials and
                 equipment to elementary and secondary schools (20)
             3. Personnel qualifications (10)

          C. Quality of Task/Activity Plan
                                                                                                  30
             1. Logical and appropriate time frames (10)
             2. Activities are of sufficient scope and detail to provide evidence of
                 satisfactory delivery of services and products (10)
             3. Ability to provide educators with products and services applicable to the
                 student’s needs (10)
          D. Cost-Effectiveness and Appropriateness of Financial Resources Dedicated to
                                                                                                  30
             Project

RFP # 701-16-020                                                                              Rev 10.21.15
                                                       13
          1.Costs are appropriately aligned with the major program objectives (15)
          2.Costs associated with the specific activities and tasks are reasonable for the
          deliverables (15)
        TOTAL                                                                                   130 points

4.2.1   Preference(s)
        The Agency shall also give preference, among proposals that are otherwise comparable, to a
        proposal submitted by a Texas Resident Bidder (TX based company) and / or a HUB. In the
        event of a tie, the proposer with the highest percentage of HUB subcontracting will be awarded
        the contract.




RFP # 701-16-020                                                                             Rev 10.21.15
                                                   14
SECTION FIVE           CONTRACTUAL REQUIREMENTS

5.1 CONTRACTOR’S PROPOSAL
    The selected proposal will be incorporated into the contract prepared by the TEA for signature by the
    contracting parties.

5.2 PROJECT REVIEW REQUIREMENTS
    TEA reserves the right to review any materials, and/or products developed or adapted by the
    Contractor. Upon completion of the contract period, all documents will be returned to TEA or
    destroyed accordingly. All documents created at any time during the contract period belong to TEA.
    The TEA Project Manager will establish procedures for communicating phase out and transition of
    the deliverable(s).

5.3 PAYMENT
    All payments are made in accordance with Texas Government Code §2251.001 et seq. Payments
    for Goods and Services. Unless otherwise indicated by the TEA, payment is only by reimbursement
    upon satisfactory performance of services.

    Payment is contingent upon submission of properly prepared and certified invoices. The information
    provided on each detailed status report must coincide with the tasks outlined in the approved budget,
    as negotiated by the TEA. The TEA Project Manager will approve invoices based upon project
    progress, task completion, deliverables received, inspected, tested and approved and satisfactory
    performance of services as outlined in the progress report. The invoice shall note the period of time
    payment is for, the agreed upon monthly amount, contract number, purchase order number, and the
    Texas comptroller of Public Accounts Payee Identification Number (TIN).

    According to guidelines set forth by the Texas Comptroller of Public Accounts, the payment
    scheduling policy requires agencies to pay as close to the due date as possible in order to maximize
    fiscal benefits to the state. Payments are due from TEA 30-days from receipt of a correct and
    complete invoice.




RFP # 701-16-020                                                                         Rev 10.21.15
                                                   15
                                                                                       ATTACHMENT A




                        NOTICE OF INTENT TO SUBMIT A PROPOSAL
                                       RFP # 701-16-020
                         Accessible Instructional Materials Outreach


The undersigned organization hereby files a notice of intent to submit a proposal:


   Name of Organization:
   Mailing Address:
   Contact Person:
   E-Mail:
   Phone Number:
   FAX:

   A. Filing of this notice is not mandatory; however, it will assist the Texas Education Agency
      in anticipating the volume of proposals in order to better expedite the review process and
      finalize contract awards.
   B. The information from the Notice of intent may also be provided to HUB contractors (if
      requested) to help establish subcontracting relationships for this solicitation as well as
      future solicitations with the agency.
   C. Filing this notice in no way binds the organization to submit a proposal for this RFP.
   D. Proposers who do not file this notice are still eligible to submit a proposal.
PLEASE SUBMIT THIS NOTICE BY E-MAIL OR FAX AS SOON AS POSSIBLE AFTER
RECEIPT OF THE RFP, BUT NOT LATER THAN, NOVEMBER 23, 2015 TO:

                                 TEAContracts@tea.texas.gov
                                    Texas Education Agency
                                   Attention to: Angela Lopez
                   Purchasing, Contracts and Agency Services (PCAS) Division
                                      FAX (512) 475-1706




RFP # 701-16-020                                                                       Rev 10.21.15
                                                16
                                                                                                         ATTACHMENT B



                                    EXECUTION OF OFFER
            CONTRACT TERMS AND CONDITIONS, AFFIRMATION AND PROPOSAL PREFERENCES

A.   Definitions as used in these Contract Terms and Conditions:
      1. Contract means the entire document, and all of TEA’s attachments, appendices, schedules (including but not
           limited to the General Provisions and the Special Provisions), amendments and extensions of or to the
           Standard Contract;
      2. Receiving Agency, Party, Owner or TEA means the Texas Education Agency;
      3. Bidder, Proposer or Respondent may be used interchangeably in the competitive solicitation. Proposer and
           Respondent infer pre-solicitation award status and Contractor infers post-award status;
      4. Bid package, proposal, or response may be use interchangeably;
      5. Contractor or Performing Agency means the party or parties to this Contract other than TEA, including its or
           their officers, directors, employees, agents, representatives, consultants and subcontractors, and
           subcontractors’ officers, directors, employees, agents, representatives and consultants;
      6. Project Manager/Administrator means the respective person(s) representing TEA or Contractor, as indicated
           by the Contract, for the purposes of administering the Contract Project;
      7. Contract Project means the purpose intended to be achieved through the Contract;
      8. Amendment means a Contract that is revised in any respect, and includes both the original Contract, and
           any subsequent amendments or extensions thereto;
      9. Major Contract means any contract over $10 million cumulative over the life of the contract;
      10. Works means all tangible or intangible material, products, ideas, documents or works of authorship prepared
           or created by Contractor for or on behalf of TEA at any time after the beginning date of the Contract (“Works”
           includes but is not limited to computer software, data, information, images, illustrations, designs, graphics,
           drawings, educational materials, assessment forms, testing materials, logos, trademarks, patentable
           materials, etc.) this does not include any pre-existing materials of Contractor, or any licensed third party
           materials provided by Contractor; and,
      11. Intellectual Property Rights means the worldwide intangible legal rights or interests evidenced by or
           embodied in: (a) any idea, design, concept, method, process, technique, apparatus, invention, discovery, or
           improvement, including any patents, trade secrets, and know-how; (b) any work of authorship, including any
           copyrights, moral rights or neighboring rights; (c) any trademark, service mark, trade dress, trade name, or
           other indicia of source or origin; (d) domain name registrations; and (e) any other similar rights. The
           Intellectual Property Rights of a party include all worldwide intangible legal rights or interests that the party
           may have acquired by assignment or license with the right to grant sublicenses;
      12. TEA Confidential Information means information that is confidential under the provisions of the Family
           Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA), the Texas Public Information Act, or other applicable state or
           federal laws. Examples of TEA Confidential Information include: (a) personally identifiable student
           information; (b) social security numbers; (c) driver’s license numbers; (d) criminal background checks; (e)
           e-mail address of a member of the public, unless the individual waives his or her right to e-mail confidentiality
           by affirmatively consenting to disclose the e-mail address or the individual seeks to contract or has a contract
           with TEA; (e) certain personnel information concerning a TEA employee including home address, home
           telephone number, emergency contact information, and family member information (if the employee elects
           in writing to keep this information confidential), personal medical information, and information reflecting
           personal financial decisions such as the employee’s choice of insurance carrier or choice to contribute money
           to a 401(k); (f) biometric identifiers such as fingerprints; (g) information about security vulnerabilities in TEA
           systems; and (h) SAS data sets.

B.    Contingency: The contracts, including any amendments, extensions or subsequent contracts are executed by
      TEA contingent upon the availability of appropriated funds by legislative act. Notwithstanding any other provision
      in this contract or any other document, this contract is void upon the insufficiency (in TEA’s discretion) or
      unavailability of appropriated funds. In addition, this contract may be terminated by TEA at any time for any
      reason upon notice to Contractor. Expenditures and/or activities for which Contractor may claim reimbursement
      shall not be accrued or claimed subsequent to receipt of such notice from TEA.
C.   Indemnification:
      Acts or Omissions
      Contractor shall indemnify and hold harmless the State of Texas and TEA, AND/OR THEIR OFFICERS,
      AGENTS, EMPLOYEES, REPRESENTATIVES, CONTRACTORS, ASSIGNEES, AND/OR DESIGNEES FROM
      ANY AND ALL LIABILITY, ACTIONS, CLAIMS, DEMANDS, OR SUITS, AND ALL RELATED COSTS,
RFP # 701-16-020                                                                                         Rev 10.21.15
                                                             17
                                                                                                       ATTACHMENT B



     ATTORNEY FEES, AND EXPENSES arising out of, or resulting from any acts or omissions of Contractor or its
     agents, employees, subcontractors, Order Fulfillers, or suppliers of subcontractors in the execution or
     performance of the contract and any purchase orders issued under the contract. THE DEFENSE SHALL BE
     COORDINATED BY CONTRACTOR WITH THE OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL WHEN TEXAS
     STATE AGENCIES ARE NAMED DEFENDANTS IN ANY LAWSUIT AND CONTRACTOR MAY NOT AGREE
     TO ANY SETTLEMENT WITHOUT FIRST OBTAINING THE CONCURRENCE FROM THE OFFICE OF THE
     ATTORNEY GENERAL. CONTRACTOR AND TEA AGREE TO FURNISH TIMELY WRITTEN NOTICE TO
     EACH OTHER OF ANY SUCH CLAIM.
     Infringements
    1)   Contractor shall indemnify and hold harmless the State of Texas and the TEA, AND/OR THEIR
         EMPLOYEES, AGENTS, REPRESENTATIVES, CONTRACTORS, ASSIGNEES, AND/OR DESIGNEES
         from any and all third party claims involving infringement of United States patents, copyrights, trade and
         service marks, and any other intellectual or intangible property rights in connection with the
         PERFORMANCES OR ACTIONS OF CONTRACTOR PURSUANT TO THIS CONTRACT. CONTRACTOR
         AND TEA AGREE TO FURNISH TIMELY WRITTEN NOTICE TO EACH OTHER OF ANY SUCH CLAIM.
         CONTRACTOR SHALL BE LIABLE TO PAY ALL COSTS OF DEFENSE INCLUDING ATTORNEYS' FEES.
         THE DEFENSE SHALL BE COORDINATED BY CONTRACTOR WITH THE OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY
         GENERAL WHEN TEXAS STATE AGENCIES ARE NAMED DEFENDANTS IN ANY LAWSUIT AND
         CONTRACTOR MAY NOT AGREE TO ANY SETTLEMENT WITHOUT FIRST OBTAINING THE
         CONCURRENCE FROM THE OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL.


    2)   Contractor shall have no liability under this section if the alleged infringement is caused in whole or in part
         by: (i) use of the product or service for a purpose or in a manner for which the product or service was not
         designed, (ii) any modification made to the product without Contractor’s written approval, (iii) any
         modifications made to the product by Contractor pursuant to TEA’s specific instructions, (iv) any intellectual
         property right owned by or licensed to TEA, or (v) any use of the product or service by TEA that is not in
         conformity with the terms of any applicable license agreement.
    3)   If Contractor becomes aware of an actual or potential claim, or TEA provides Contractor with notice of an
         actual or potential claim, Contractor may (or in the case of an injunction against TEA, shall), at Contractor’s
         sole option and expense; (i) procure for the TEA the right to continue to use the affected portion of the product
         or service, or (ii) modify or replace the affected portion of the product or service with functionally equivalent
         or superior product or service so that TEA’s use is non-infringing.
     CONTRACTOR AGREES AND ACKNOWLEDGES THAT DURING THE EXISTENCE OF THIS CONTRACT,
     CONTRACTOR SHALL BE ENTIRELY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE LIABILITY AND PAYMENT OF
     CONTRACTOR’S AND CONTRACTOR 'S EMPLOYEES’ TAXES OF WHATEVER KIND, ARISING OUT OF
     THE PERFORMANCES IN THIS CONTRACT. CONTRACTOR AGREES TO COMPLY WITH ALL STATE AND
     FEDERAL LAWS APPLICABLE TO ANY SUCH PERSONS, INCLUDING LAWS REGARDING WAGES,
     TAXES, INSURANCE, AND WORKERS' COMPENSATION. TEA AND/OR THE STATE SHALL NOT BE
     LIABLE TO CONTRACTOR, ITS EMPLOYEES, AGENTS, OR OTHERS FOR THE PAYMENT OF TAXES OR
     THE PROVISION OF UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE AND/OR WORKERS’ COMPENSATION OR ANY
     BENEFIT AVAILABLE TO A STATE EMPLOYEE OR EMPLOYEE OF ANOTHER GOVERNMENTAL ENTITY
     CUSTOMER.
     CONTRACTOR AGREES TO INDEMNIFY AND HOLD HARMLESS TEA, THE STATE OF TEXAS AND/OR
     THEIR EMPLOYEES, AGENTS, REPRESENTATIVES, CONTRACTORS, AND/OR ASSIGNEES FROM ANY
     AND ALL LIABILITY, ACTIONS, CLAIMS, DEMANDS, OR SUITS, AND ALL RELATED COSTS, ATTORNEYS’
     FEES, AND EXPENSES, RELATING TO TAX LIABILITY, UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE AND/OR
     WORKERS’ COMPENSATION IN ITS PERFORMANCE UNDER THIS CONTRACT. CONTRACTOR SHALL
     BE LIABLE TO PAY ALL COSTS OF DEFENSE INCLUDING ATTORNEYS’ FEES. THE DEFENSE SHALL BE
     COORDINATED BY CONTRACTOR WITH THE OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL WHEN TEXAS
     STATE AGENCIES ARE NAMED DEFENDANTS IN ANY LAWSUIT AND CONTRACTOR MAY NOT AGREE
     TO ANY SETTLEMENT WITHOUT FIRST OBTAINING THE CONCURRENCE FROM THE OFFICE OF THE
     ATTORNEY GENERAL. CONTRACTOR AND TEA AGREE TO FURNISH TIMELY WRITTEN NOTICE TO
     EACH OTHER OF ANY SUCH CLAIM.
     For local educational agencies (LEAs), regional education service centers (ESCs), institutions of higher
     education (IHEs), and state agencies: Contractor, to the extent permitted by law, shall hold TEA harmless from
     and shall indemnify TEA against any and all claims, demands, and causes of action of whatever kind or nature

RFP # 701-16-020                                                                                      Rev 10.21.15
                                                          18
                                                                                                        ATTACHMENT B



     asserted by any third party and occurring or in any way incident to, arising from, or in connection with, any acts
     of Contractor in performance of the Contract Project.
D.   Subcontracting and Substitutions: Contractor shall not assign, transfer or subcontract any of its rights or
     responsibilities under this contract without prior formal written amendment to this contract properly executed by
     both TEA and Contractor. TEA reserves the right to request changes in personnel assigned to the project. The
     TEA Project Manager must pre-approve any changes in key personnel throughout the contract term. Any
     changes to the HUB Subcontracting Plan (HSP) must be approved by TEA HUB Coordinator before staffing
     changes are initiated. Substitutions are not permitted without written approval of TEA Project Manager.
E.   Encumbrances/Obligations: All encumbrances, accounts payable, and expenditures shall occur on or between
     the beginning and ending dates of this contract. All goods must have been received and all services rendered
     during the contract period in order for Contractor to recover funds due. In no manner shall encumbrances be
     considered or reflected as accounts payable or as expenditures.
F.   Contractor’s Proposal: Contractor’s proposal that was furnished to TEA in response to the competitive
     solicitation (Request for Proposal) is incorporated in this contract by reference. The provisions of this contract
     shall prevail, however, in all cases of conflict arising from the terms of Contractor's proposal whether such
     proposal is a written part of this contract or is attached as a separate document.
G.   Requirements, Terms, Conditions, and Assurances: The terms, conditions, and assurances, which are stated
     in the competitive solicitation (Request for Proposal), in response to which Contractor submitted a proposal, are
     incorporated herein by reference for all purposes, although the current General Provisions shall prevail in the
     event of conflict.
H.   Records Retention and the Right to Audit: Contractor shall maintain its records and accounts in a manner
     which shall assure a full accounting for all funds received and expended by Contractor in connection with the
     Contract Project. These records and accounts shall be retained by Contractor and made available for
     programmatic or financial audit by TEA and by others authorized by law or regulation to make such an audit for
     a period of not less than seven (7) years from the date of completion of the Contract Project or the date of the
     receipt by TEA of Contractor's final claim for payment or final expenditure report in connection with this contract,
     whichever is later. If an audit has been announced, the records shall be retained until such audit has been
     completed.
     Pursuant to Government Code, the state auditor may conduct an audit or investigation of Contractor or any other
     entity or person receiving funds from the state directly under this contract or indirectly through a subcontract
     under this contract. The acceptance of funds by Contractor or any other entity or person directly under this
     contract or indirectly through a subcontract under this contract acts as acceptance of the authority of the state
     auditor, under the direction of the legislative audit committee to conduct an audit or investigation in connection
     with those funds. Under the direction of the legislative audit committee, Contractor or other entity that is the
     subject of an audit or investigation by the state auditor must provide the state auditor with access to any
     information the state auditor considers relevant to the investigation or audit. Contractor will ensure that this clause
     concerning the authority to audit funds received indirectly by subcontractors through Contractor and the
     requirement to cooperate is included in any subcontract it awards.
     Contractor further agrees that acceptance of funds under this contract acts as acceptance for TEA to conduct an
     audit or investigation in connection with those funds. Contractor, subcontractors, and any entities receiving funds
     through this contract shall cooperate fully with TEA in the conduct of the audit or investigation, including providing
     all records pertaining to this contract that are requested.
I.   Intellectual Property Ownership: Contractor agrees that all Works are, upon creation, works made for hire and
     the sole property of TEA. If the Works are, under applicable law, not considered works made for hire, Contractor
     hereby assigns to TEA all worldwide ownership of all rights, including the Intellectual Property Rights, in the
     Works, without the necessity of any further consideration, and TEA can obtain and hold in its own name all such
     rights to the Works. Contractor agrees to maintain written agreements with all officers, directors, employees,
     agents, representatives and subcontractors engaged by Contractor for the Contract Project, granting Contractor
     rights sufficient to support the performance and grant of rights to TEA by Contractor. Copies of such agreements
     shall be provided to TEA promptly upon request.
     Contractor warrants that (i) it has the authority to grant the rights herein granted, (ii) it has not assigned or
     transferred any right, title, or interest to the Works or Intellectual Property Rights that would conflict with its
     obligations under the contract, and Contractor will not enter into any such agreements, and (iii) the Works will be
     original and will not infringe any intellectual property rights of any other person or entity. These warranties will
     survive the termination of the contract. If any preexisting rights are embodied in the Works, or grants to TEA the
RFP # 701-16-020                                                                                        Rev 10.21.15
                                                           19
                                                                                                          ATTACHMENT B



      irrevocable, perpetual, non-exclusive, worldwide, royalty-free right and license to (a) use, execute, reproduce,
      display, perform, distribute copies of, and prepare derivative works based upon such preexisting rights and any
      derivative works thereof and (b) authorize others to do any or all of the foregoing. Contractor agrees to notify
      TEA on delivery of the Works if they include any such preexisting rights. On request, Contractor will provide TEA
      with documentation indicating a third party’s written approval for Contractor to use any preexisting rights that
      may be embodied or reflected in the Works.
      Contractor agrees, at Contractors expense, to indemnify, hold harmless and defend TEA and the State from
      claims involving infringement of third parties’ licenses, trademarks, copyrights or patents.
         For School Districts and Nonprofit Organizations: The foregoing Intellectual Property Ownership
         provisions apply to any school districts, nonprofit organizations, and their employees, agents, representatives,
         consultants and subcontractors.
         For Education Service Centers (ESCs): The foregoing Intellectual Property Ownership provisions apply to
         an Education Service Center (ESC) and its employees, agents, representatives, consultants, and
         subcontractors. If an ESC or any of its subcontractor(s) wish to obtain a license agreement to use, advertise,
         offer for sale, sell, distribute, publicly display, publicly perform or reproduce the Works, or make derivative
         works from the Works, then express written permission must first be obtained from TEA’s Office of Legal
         Services.
         For Colleges and Universities: The foregoing Intellectual Property Ownership provisions apply to any
         colleges and universities and their employees, agents, representatives, consultants, and subcontractors;
         provided, that for all Works created or conceived by colleges or universities under the contract, they are
         granted a non-exclusive, non-transferable, royalty-free license to use the Works for their own academic and
         educational purposes only. Colleges and universities are prohibited, however, from advertising, offering for
         sale, selling, distributing, publicly displaying, publicly performing, or reproducing the Works, or making
         derivative works from the Works that are created or conceived under this contract, without the express written
         permission of TEA Legal Division.
J.    Time Delays; Suspension; Sanctions for Failure to Perform; Noncompliance:
      Time is of the Essence.
      Contractor’s timely performance is essential to this contract.
      Suspension
      If this contract is suspended by TEA prior to its expiration date, the reasonable monetary value of services
      properly performed by Contractor pursuant to this contract prior to suspension shall be determined by TEA and
      paid to Contractor as soon as reasonably possible. TEA shall not be required to pay any standby hourly rates
      during a suspension of Work, if TEA suspends performance of the Work because the Work is defective, or
      Contractor fails to supply sufficiently skilled workers or suitable materials or equipment, or fails to provide required
      insurance coverage, or fails to furnish or perform the Work in such a way that the completed Work will conform
      to this contract.
      Sanctions
      If Contractor, in TEA’s sole determination, fails or refuses for any reason to comply with or perform any of its
      obligations under this Contract, TEA may impose such sanctions as it may deem appropriate. This includes but
      is not limited to the withholding of payments to Contractor until Contractor complies; the cancellation, termination,
      or suspension of this contract in whole or in part; and the seeking of other remedies as may be provided by this
      contract or by law. Any cancellation, termination, or suspension of this contract, if imposed, shall become effective
      at the close of business on the day of Contractor's receipt of written notice thereof from TEA.
K.   Information Security Requirements; Proprietary; Confidential Information:
     Access to Confidential TEA Information. Contractor represents and warrants that it will take all necessary and
     appropriate action within its abilities to safeguard TEA Confidential Information and to protect it from unauthorized
     disclosure. If Contractor discloses any TEA confidential information to a subcontractor or agent, Contractor will
     require the subcontractor or agent to comply with the same restrictions and obligations as are imposed on
     Contractor. Whenever communications with Contractor necessitate the release of Confidential TEA Information,
     additional TEA Confidential forms will need to be signed by each individual who will require access to or may be
     exposed to that information. Contractor shall access TEA’s systems or Confidential TEA Information only for the
     purposes for which it is authorized. TEA reserves the right to review Contractor’s security policy to ensure that
     any data that is on Contractor’s servers is secure. Contractor shall cooperate fully by making resources, personnel,
     and systems access available to TEA and TEA’s authorized representative(s).
RFP # 701-16-020                                                                                          Rev 10.21.15
                                                             20
                                                                                                        ATTACHMENT B



      Contractor shall ensure that any TEA Confidential Information in the custody of Contractor is properly sanitized
      or destroyed when the information is no longer required to be retained by TEA or Contractor in accordance with
      this contract. Electronic media used for storing any Confidential TEA Information must be sanitized by clearing,
      purging or destroying in accordance with such standards established by the National Institute of Standards and
      Technology and the Center for Internet Security. These standards are also required if Contractor is collecting,
      maintaining, or analyzing data gathered, collected, or provided under this contract. Contractor must maintain a
      record documenting the removal and completion of all sanitization procedures with the following information:
           (1) Date and time of sanitization/destruction;
           (2) Description of the item(s) and serial number(s) if applicable;
           (3) Inventory number(s); and
           (4) Procedures and tools used for sanitization/destruction.
      No later than 60 days from contract expiration or termination or as otherwise specified in this contract, Contractor
      must complete the sanitization and destruction of the data and provide to TEA documentation that the sanitization
      has been completed. The documents must be certified by an authorized agent of the company.
      Access to Internal TEA Network and Systems
      As a condition of gaining remote access to any internal TEA network and systems, Contractor must comply with
      TEA’s policies and procedures. TEA’s remote access request procedures will require Contractor to submit TEA
      Applicable Access Request forms for TEA’s review and approval. Remote access technologies provided by
      Contractor must be approved by TEA’s Information Security Officer. TEA, in its sole discretion, may deny
      network or system access to any individual that does not complete the required forms. Contractor must secure
      its own connected systems in a manner consistent with TEA’s requirements. TEA reserves the right to audit the
      security measures in effect on Contractor’s connected systems without prior warning. TEA also reserves the
      right to immediately terminate network and system connections not meeting such requirements.
      Disclosure of Security Breach
      Contractor shall provide notice to TEA’s Project Manager and TEA’s Information Security Officer as soon as
      possible following Contractor’s discovery or reasonable belief that there has been unauthorized use, exposure,
      access, disclosure, compromise, modification, or loss of sensitive or confidential TEA information (“Security
      Incident”). Within 24 hours of the discovery or reasonable belief of a Security Incident, Contractor shall provide
      a written report to TEA’s Information Security Officer detailing the circumstances of the incident which includes
      at a minimum:
           (1)   Description of the nature of the Security Incident;
           (2)   The type of TEA information involved;
           (3)   Who may have obtained the information;
           (4)   What steps Contractor has taken or will take to investigate the Security Incident;
           (5)   What steps Contractor has taken or will take to mitigate any negative effect of the Security Incident; and
           (6)   A point of contact for additional information.
      Each day thereafter until the investigation is complete, Contractor shall provide TEA’s Information Security Officer
      with a written report regarding the status of the investigation and the following additional information as it
      becomes available:
           (1)   Who is known or suspected to have gained unauthorized access to TEA information;
           (2)   Whether there is any knowledge if TEA information has been abused or compromised;
           (3)   What additional steps Contractor has taken or will take to investigate the Security Incident;
           (4)   What steps Contractor has taken or will take to mitigate any negative effect of the Security Incident; and
           (5)   What corrective action Contractor has taken or will take to prevent future similar unauthorized use or
                 disclosure.
     Contractor shall confer with TEA’s Chief Information Security Officer regarding the proper course of the
     investigation and risk mitigation. TEA reserves the right to conduct an independent investigation of any Security
     Incident, and should TEA choose to do so, Contractor shall cooperate fully by making resources, personnel, and
     systems access available to TEA and TEA’s authorized representative(s). Subject to review and approval of
     TEA’s Information Security Officer, Contractor, at its own cost, shall provide notice that satisfies the requirements
     of applicable law to individuals whose personal, confidential, or privileged data were compromised or likely
     compromised as a result of the Security Incident. If TEA, in its sole discretion, elects to send its own separate
     notice, then all costs associated with preparing and providing notice shall be reimbursed to TEA by Contractor. If
     Contractor does not reimburse such costs within 30 days of TEA’s written request, then TEA shall have the right
     to collect such costs.
RFP # 701-16-020                                                                                        Rev 10.21.15
                                                           21
                                                                                                       ATTACHMENT B



L.   Refunds Due to TEA: If TEA determines that TEA is due a refund of money paid to Contractor pursuant to this
     contract, Contractor shall pay the money due to TEA within 30 days of Contractor's receipt of written notice that
     such money is due to TEA. If Contractor fails to make timely payment, TEA may obtain such money from
     Contractor by any means permitted by law, including but not limited to offset, counterclaim, cancellation,
     termination, suspension, total withholding, and/or disapproval of all or any subsequent applications for said funds.
M.   Capital Outlay: If Contractor purchases capital outlay (furniture and/or equipment) to accomplish the contract
     Project, title will remain with Contractor for the period of the contract. TEA reserves the right to transfer capital
     outlay items for contract noncompliance during the contract period or as needed after the ending date of the
     contract. This provision applies to any and all furniture and/or equipment regardless of unit price and how the
     item is classified in Contractor's accounting record. This provision is applicable when federal funds are utilized
     for the contract.
N.   TEA Property (terms): In the event of loss, damage or destruction of any property owned by or loaned by TEA
     while in the custody or control of Contractor, Contractor shall indemnify TEA and pay to TEA the full value of or
     the full cost of repair or replacement of such property, whichever is the greater, within 30 days of Contractor's
     receipt of written notice of TEA's determination of the amount due. This applies whether the property is developed
     or purchased by Contractor pursuant to this contract or is provided by TEA to Contractor for use in the contract
     Project. If Contractor fails to make timely payment, TEA may obtain such money from Contractor by any means
     permitted by law, including but not limited to offset or counterclaim against any money otherwise due to
     Contractor by TEA.
O.   State of Texas Laws: In the conduct of the Contract Project, Contractor shall be subject to laws or rules of the
     State of Texas pertaining to and or governing this contract and the Contract Project. This contract constitutes the
     entire agreement between TEA and Contractor for the accomplishment of the Contract Project. This contract
     shall be interpreted according to the laws of the State of Texas except as may be otherwise provided for in this
     contract.
P.   Point of Contact and Escalation: All notices, reports and correspondence required by this contract shall be in
     writing and delivered to TEA Project Manager listed below or their successors in office. Within 30 days of
     execution of a contract, the respective Parties will designate the next level of personnel within each organization
     to address conflicts or ambiguity that cannot be resolved at the Project Manager level.


                               TEA                                                  CONTRACTOR


     Texas Education Agency
     William B. Travis Building
     1701 N. Congress Avenue
     Austin, Texas 78701


Q.   Federal Rules, Laws, and Regulations That Apply to all Federal Programs: Contractor shall be subject to
     and shall abide by all federal laws, rules, and regulations, pertaining to the Contract Project, including, but not
     limited to:
          1.   Americans With Disabilities Act, P.L. 101-336, 42 U.S.C. sec. 12101, and the regulations effectuating
               its provisions contained in 28 CFR Parts 35 and 36, 29 CFR Part 1630, and 47 CFR Parts 0 and 64;
          2.   Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended (prohibition of discrimination by race, color, or
               national origin), and the regulations effectuating its provisions contained in 34 CFR Part 100;
          3.   Title IX of the Education Amendments 1972, as amended (prohibition of sex discrimination in
               educational institutions) and the regulations effectuating its provisions contained in 34 CFR Part 106, if
               Contractor is an educational institution;
          4.   Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended (nondiscrimination on the basis of
               handicapping condition), and the regulations effectuating its provisions contained in 34 CFR Parts 104
               and 105;
          5.   The Age Discrimination Act of 1975, as amended (prohibition of discrimination on basis of age), and the
               implementing regulations contained in 34 CFR, Part 110;


RFP # 701-16-020                                                                                      Rev 10.21.15
                                                          22
                                                                                                       ATTACHMENT B



          6.   Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act of 1975, as amended, and the implementing regulations
               contained in 34 CFR, Part 99, if Contractor is an educational institution;
          7.   Section 509 of H.R. 5233 as incorporated by reference in P.L. 99-500 and P.L. 99-591 (prohibition
               against the use of federal grant funds to influence legislation pending before Congress);
          8.   P.L. 103-227, Title X, Miscellaneous Provisions of the GOALS 2000: Educate America Act; P.L. 103-
               382, Title XIV, General Provisions of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act, as amended; and
          9.   General Education Provisions Act, as amended.
R.   Forms, Assurances, and Reports: Contractor shall timely make and file with the proper authorities all forms,
     assurances and reports required by federal laws and regulations. TEA shall be responsible for reporting to the
     proper authorities any failure by Contractor to comply with the foregoing laws and regulations coming to TEA's
     attention, and may deny payment or recover payments made by TEA to Contractor in the event of Contractor's
     failure so to comply. Contractor who is indebted or owes delinquent taxes to the state will have any payments
     under the contract applied toward the debt or delinquent taxes owed the state until the account is paid in full,
     regardless of when the debt or delinquency was incurred. This provision does not apply if the warrant or transfer
     results in payments being made in whole or in part with money paid to the state by the Federal Government.
     Pursuant to 34 TAC §201.14 -18 and Texas Government Code, Chapter 2161, Contractors shall maintain
     business records documenting compliance with the HUB subcontracting plan (HSP) and shall submit a
     compliance report to TEA monthly, in the format required by TEA. The compliance report submission shall be
     required as a condition for payment. If Contractor subcontracts any part of the contract in a manner that is not
     consistent with its HSP, the selected respondent must submit a revised HSP before subcontracting any of the
     work under the contract. If Contractor subcontracts any of the work without prior authorization and without
     complying with this section, Contractor is deemed to have breached the contract and is subject to any remedial
     actions provided by Government Code, Chapter 2161, and other applicable state law.
S.   Signature Authority; Final Expression; Superseding Document: Contractor certifies that the person signing
     this contract has been properly delegated this authority. The contract represents the final and complete
     expression of the terms of agreement between the parties. The contract supersedes any previous
     understandings or negotiations between the parties. Any representations, oral statements, promises or
     warranties that differ from the contract shall have no force or effect. The contract may be modified, amended or
     extended only by formal written amendment properly executed by both TEA and Contractor.
T.   Antitrust: By signing this contract, Contractor, represents and warrants that neither Contractor nor any firm,
     corporation, partnership, or institution represented by Contractor, or anyone acting for such firm, corporation or
     institution has, (1) violated the antitrust laws of the State of Texas under Texas Business and Commerce Code,
     Chapter 15, or the federal antitrust laws; or (2) communicated directly or indirectly the Proposal to any competitor
     or any other person engaged in such line of business during the procurement process for this contract.
U.   Family Code Applicability: By signing this contract, Contractor, if other than a state party, certifies that under
     Section 231.006, Family Code, that Contractor is not ineligible to receive specified grant, loan, or payment under
     this contract and acknowledges that this contract may be terminated and payment may be withheld if this
     certification is inaccurate. TEA reserves the right to terminate this Contract if Contractor is found to be ineligible
     to receive payment. If Contractor is found to be ineligible to receive payment and the contract is terminated,
     Contractor is liable to TEA for attorney’s fees, the costs necessary to complete the contract, including the cost of
     advertising and awarding a second contract, and any other damages or relief provided by law or equity.
V.   Dispute Resolution: The dispute resolution process provided for in Chapter 2260 of the Texas Government
     Code must be used by TEA and Contractor to attempt to resolve all disputes arising under this contract. The
     parties may agree to mediation of their dispute at any time. However, if all issues in dispute are not completely
     resolved through direct negotiations between the parties within 180 days after TEA receives Contractor’s notice
     of claim, then the parties must submit the dispute to mediation before a mutually acceptable mediator in Travis
     County, Texas. The mediation must be completed on or before 270 days after TEA receives Contractor’s notice
     of claim. Completion of the mediation is a condition precedent to the filing of a contested case hearing under
     Chapter 2260. TEA’s participation in mediation or any other dispute resolution process shall not waive any of
     TEA’s contractual or legal rights and remedies, including but not limited to sovereign immunity.
W.   Interpretation: In the case of conflicts arising in the interpretation of wording and/or meaning of various sections,
     parts, Appendices, General Provisions, Special Provisions, Exhibits, and Attachments or other documents, TEA
     contract and its General Provisions, Appendices and Special Provisions shall take precedence over all other
     documents which are a part of this contract.
RFP # 701-16-020                                                                                       Rev 10.21.15
                                                           23
                                                                                                        ATTACHMENT B



X.    Education Service Center: No funds transferred to Regional Education Service Centers or to school districts
      may be used to hire a registered lobbyist.
Y.    Compliance with Laws: Contractor shall comply with all federal, state, and local laws, statutes, ordinances,
      rules and regulations, and the orders and decrees of any court or administrative bodies or tribunals in any matter
      affecting Contractor’s performance, including if applicable, workers’ compensation laws, minimum and maximum
      salary and wage statutes and regulations, prompt payment and licensing laws and regulations. For the entire
      duration of the contract, Contractor shall maintain all required licenses, certifications, permits, and any other
      documentation necessary to perform this contract. When required or requested by TEA, Contractor shall furnish
      TEA with satisfactory proof of its compliance with this provision.
Z.    Public Information: TEA is subject to the provisions of the Texas Public Information Act. If a request for
      disclosure of this contract or any information related to the goods or services provided under the contract or
      information provided to TEA under this Contract constituting a record under the Act is received by TEA, the
      information must qualify for an exception provided by the Act in order to be withheld from public disclosure.
      Contractor authorizes TEA to submit any information contained in the contract, provided under the contract, or
      otherwise requested to be disclosed, including information Contractor has labeled as confidential proprietary
      information, to the Office of the Attorney General for a determination as to whether any such information may be
      exempt from public disclosure under the Act. If TEA does not have a good faith belief that information may be
      subject to an exception to disclosure, TEA is not obligating itself by this contract to submit the information to the
      Attorney General. It shall be the responsibility of Contractor to make any legal argument to the Attorney General
      or appropriate court of law regarding the exception of the information in question from disclosure. Contractor
      waives any claim against and releases from liability TEA, its officers, employees, agents, and attorneys with
      respect to disclosure of information provided under or in this contract or otherwise created, assembled,
      maintained, or held by Contractor and determined by the Attorney General or a court of law to be subject to
      disclosure under the Act.
      Under Section 2252.907 of the Texas Government Code, a contract between a state governmental entity and a
      non-governmental contractor involving the exchange or creation of public information, as defined by the Texas
      Government Code Section 552.002, must require the non-governmental contractor to make any information
      created or exchanged with the state pursuant to this contract, and not otherwise excepted from disclosure under
      the Texas Public Information Act, available in a format that is accessible by the public at no additional charge to
      the state. TEA Project Manager will provide the specific format by which Contractor is required to make the
      information accessible by the public.
AA. Gratuities: By signing this contract, Contractor represents and warrants that Contractor has not given, offer to
    give, nor intends to give at any time hereafter any economic opportunity, future employment, gift, loan, gratuity,
    special discount, trip, favor, or service to a public servant in connection with the submitted response.
BB. Venue and Jurisdiction: Subject to and without waiving any of TEA’s rights, including sovereign immunity, this
    contract is governed by and construed under and in accordance with the laws of the State of Texas. Venue for
    any suit concerning this solicitation and any resulting contract or purchase order shall be in a court of competent
    jurisdiction in Travis County, Texas.
CC. Protests: Any actual or prospective Bidder, Respondent, or Contractor who is aggrieved in connection with the
    solicitation, evaluation, or award of this or any other contract by TEA may submit a formal protest to the Director
    of TEA’s Contracts, Purchasing and Agency Services (PCAS) Division. This protest procedure shall be the
    exclusive method by which anyone may make a challenge to any aspect of TEA’s contracting process. TEA will
    not be required to consider the merits of any protest unless the written protest is submitted within 10 working
    days after such aggrieved person knows, or reasonably should have known, of the occurrence of the action
    which is protested. The protest document must meet with all requirements in applicable law and TEA’s rules
    (Title 19 of the Texas Administrative Code, at § 30.2002) http://ritter.tea.state.tx.us/rules/tac/index.html.
      If the protest procedure results in a final determination by TEA that a violation of law has occurred in its
      contracting process in a case in which a contract has been awarded, then TEA may declare the contract void at
      inception. In that event, the party who had been awarded the contract shall have no rights under the contract
      and no remedies under the law against TEA
DD. Liability for and Payment of Taxes: Contractor represents and warrants that it shall pay all taxes or similar
    amounts resulting from this contract, including, but not limited to, any federal, state, or local income, sales or
    excise taxes of Contractor or its employees. TEA shall not be liable for any taxes resulting from this contract.


RFP # 701-16-020                                                                                       Rev 10.21.15
                                                           24
                                                                                                        ATTACHMENT B



EE.   Severability: In the event that any provision of this contract is later determined to be invalid, void, or
      unenforceable, the invalid provision will be deemed severable and stricken from the contract as if it had never
      been incorporated herein. The remaining terms, provisions, covenants, and conditions of this contract shall
      remain in full force and effect, and shall in no way be affected, impaired, or invalidated.
FF.   Conformance: Contractor warrants that all goods and services furnished shall conform in all respects to the
      terms of this contract, including any drawings, specifications or standards incorporated herein, and any defects
      in materials, workmanship, and free from such defects in design. In addition, Contractor warrants that goods and
      services are suitable for and will perform in accordance with the purposes for which they are intended.
GG. Felony Criminal Convictions: Contractor represents and warrants that Contractor has not and Contractor’s
    employees assigned to TEA projects have not been convicted of a felony criminal offense, or that, if such a
    conviction has occurred, Contractor has fully advised TEA as to the facts and circumstances surrounding the
    conviction.
HH.   Criminal Background Checks: If during the term of this Contract, Contractor, and/or Contractor staff, or
      subcontractor have access to Texas public school campuses, all Contractor and/or Contractor’s staff must submit
      to a national criminal history record information review (includes fingerprinting) and meet all eligibility standards
      and criteria as set by TEA before serving in assignments on behalf of TEA. This requirement applies to all
      individuals who currently serve or will serve in TEA assignments that have the possibility of direct contact with
      students. Assignments are contingent upon meeting TEA eligibility standards. Contractor and/or any staff
      member of Contractor who may perform services under this contract must complete this criminal history review
      before the beginning of an assignment. If said individuals have not completed this requirement or the review
      results in a determination that Contractor is not eligible for assignment, this contract will be terminated effective
      immediately or the date of notice of non-eligibility, whichever is earliest.
II.   Assignment of Contract: This contract may not be assigned, sold, or transferred without the express written
      consent of TEA Purchasing, Contracts, and TEA Services (PCAS) Division. An attempted assignment after
      contract award without TEA approval will constitute a material breach of contract.
JJ.   Buy Texas: In accordance with Government Code, Section 2155.444, the State of Texas requires that during
      the performance of a contract for services, Contractor shall purchase products and materials produced in the
      State of Texas when available at a price and time comparable to products and materials produced outside the
      state. This provision does not apply if Contractor receives any federal funds under this contract.
KK.   Excluded Parties List System: TEA and Contractor must adhere to the directions provided in the President’s
      Executive Order (EO) 13224, Blocking Property and Prohibiting Transactions With Persons Who Commit,
      Threaten to Commit, or Support Terrorism, which may be viewed at http://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-
      room/presidential-actions/executive-orders. That Executive Order prohibits any transaction or dealing by United
      States persons, including but not limited to the making or receiving of any contribution of funds, goods, or services
      to or for the benefit of those persons listed in the General Services Administration’s Excluded Parties List System
      (EPLS) which may be viewed on the System for Award Management (SAM) site at http://www.sam.gov.
LL.   Suspension and Debarment: Contractor certifies that neither it nor its principals are presently debarred,
      suspended, proposed for debarment, declared ineligible, or voluntary excluded from participation in this
      transaction by any federal, state or local government entity and that Contractor is in compliance with the State of
      Texas statutes and rules relating to procurement. If Contractor is unable to certify to any of the statements in
      this certification, such prospective participant shall attach an explanation to this contract.
MM. Electronic and Information Resources Accessibility Standards: State agencies shall procure products which
    comply with the State of Texas Accessibility requirements for Electronic Information Resources specified in 1TAC
    Chapter 213 when such products are available in the commercial marketplace or when such products are
    developed in response to a procurement solicitation.
      Regulations updating the accessibility requirements for entities covered by Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act
      of 1973 will likely be adopted sometime in FY 2015. Therefore, all current and potential contractors are hereby
      notified of the impending changes. The current technical requirements for accessibility contained within this
      regulation form the basis for our Texas TAC rules on EIR Accessibility.
      This refresh of 508 will be using the WCAG 2.0 AA Accessibility Guidelines (also ISO/IEC standard 40500) as
      the new technical standard that federal agencies will be required to meet when procuring products and services.
      Once the 508 refresh is adopted, the Texas Department of Information Resources will be modifying the TAC
      rules to align with it.
RFP # 701-16-020                                                                                       Rev 10.21.15
                                                           25
                                                                                                        ATTACHMENT B



      Given this coming change, all Texas agencies and institutions of higher education should begin using or
      specifying WCAG 2.0 AA guidelines for the design of new websites or web applications. The rationale is twofold:
           1.   It could be technically difficult and expensive to bring these websites/applications to WCAG 2.0 AA later.
           2.   WG 2.0 AA is a superior, more flexible standard and is in use all over the world. If a website is compliant
                with WCAG 2.0 AA, it will, by default comply with our current TAC rules on EIR Accessibility.
      Web development Contractors should already be familiar with designing to this standard, and their ability to meet
      these standards should be a strong consideration in the selection process.
      The free online resources listed below are available to assist developers and content producers in transitioning
      to these guidelines.
      WCAG 2.0 at a glance
      IBM Developer Guidelines Web Checklist
      Webaim.org Accessibility Checklist
NN. Collusion: Contractor certifies and represents that Contractor has not colluded with, nor received any assistance
    from, any person who was paid by TEA to prepare specifications or a solicitation on which a Contractor’s bid or
    proposal is based and will not allow any person who prepared the respective specifications or solicitation to
    participate financially in any contract award.
OO. Social Security Numbers Withheld: TEA will not provide Social Security Numbers (SSNs) to any Contractor
    under this contract unless specifically specified as part of the project requirements. TEA, its Contractors and their
    subcontractors, will not require or request school districts to provide SSNs under this contract. Contractor agrees
    that in executing tasks on behalf of TEA, they will not use any student-identifying information in any way that
    violates the provisions of FERPA, and will destroy or return all student-identifying information to TEA within 30
    days of project completion. An authorized officer of the company must certify that ALL records have either been
    properly destroyed or returned to TEA in order to close out the contract.
PP.   Nondisclosure; Press Releases: All information gathered, produced, derived, obtained, analyzed, controlled or
      Accessed by Contractor in connection with a contract resulting from a solicitation(“Confidential Information”) shall
      be and remain Confidential Information and shall not be released or disclosed by Contractor without the prior
      written consent of TEA, which consent must specifically identify the Confidential Information to be disclosed by
      Contractor and the nature of the disclosure for which consent is sought. Contractor, its employees and
      subcontractors, agree that in executing tasks on behalf of TEA, they will not use any student-identifying
      information in any way that violates the provisions of FERPA, and will destroy or return all student-identifying
      information within 30 days of project completion. Contractor also agrees not to disclose any information to which
      it is privy under this contract without the prior consent of TEA. Contractor will indemnify and hold harmless the
      State of Texas, its officers and employees, and TEA, its officers and employees for any claims or damages that
      arise from the disclosure by Contractor or its Contractors of information held by the State of Texas. Except when
      defined as part of the Work under this contract. Contractor will not make any press releases, public statements,
      or advertisement referring to the Project or the engagement of Contractor in connection with the Project, or
      release any information relative to the Project for publication, advertisement or any other purpose without the
      prior written approval of TEA.
QQ. Independent Contractor: Contractor shall serve as an independent Contractor in providing services under this
    contract. Contractor’s employees are not and shall not be construed as employees or agents of the State of
    Texas.
RR. Contractor Performance: All state agencies must report unsatisfactory Contractor performance on purchases
    over $25,000. Proposers who are in default or otherwise not in good standing under any other current or prior
    contract with TEA at the time of selection will not be eligible for award of this contract. A Proposer’s past
    performance will be measured based upon pass/fail criteria, in compliance with applicable provisions of
    §§2155.074, 2155.075, 2156.007, 2157.003, and 2157.125, Gov't Code. Proposers may fail this selection
    criterion for any of the following conditions: A score of less than 90% in Contractor Performance System, currently
    under a Corrective Action Plan, having repeated negative Contractor performance reports for the same reason,
    having purchase orders that have been cancelled in the previous 12 months for non-performance (i.e. late
    delivery, etc.). TEA may conduct reference checks with other entities regarding past performance. In addition to
    evaluating performance through Contractor Performance Tracking System (as authorized by 34 Texas
    Administrative Code §20.108). TEA or a designee may conduct periodic contract compliance reviews without
    advance notice, to monitor performance. TEA may examine other sources of Contractor performance including,

RFP # 701-16-020                                                                                        Rev 10.21.15
                                                            26
                                                                                                        ATTACHMENT B



      but not limited to, notices of termination, cure notices, assessments of liquidated damages, litigation, audit
      reports, and non-renewals of contracts. Any such investigations shall be at the sole discretion of TEA, and any
      negative findings, as determined by TEA, may result in non-award to the Proposer.
          Agencies report satisfactory and exceptional Contractor performance to assist in determining best value. In
          accordance with Texas Government Code, §2155.074 and §2155.75, Contractor performance may be used
          as a factor in future contract awards.
          Contractor     performance       information   is    located    on              the     CPA       website       at
          http://www.cpa.state.tx.us/procurement/prog/vendor_performance/
SS.   Termination: This contract shall terminate upon full performance of all requirements contained in this contract,
      unless otherwise extended or renewed as provided in accordance with the contract terms and conditions.
          1.   Termination for Convenience: TEA may terminate this contract at any time, in whole or in part, without
               penalty, by providing 15 calendar days advance written notice to Contractor. In the event of such a
               termination, Contractor shall, unless otherwise mutually agreed upon in writing, cease all work
               immediately upon the effective date of termination. TEA shall be liable for reimbursing only those
               expenses incurred by Contractor that are permitted, properly performed under this contract and were
               incurred prior to the effective termination date.
          2.   Termination for Cause/Default: If Contractor fails to provide the goods or services contracted for
               according to the provisions of the contract, or fails to comply with any of the terms or conditions of the
               contract, TEA may, upon written notice of default to Contractor, immediately terminate all or any part of
               the contract. Termination is not an exclusive remedy, but will be in addition to any other rights and
               remedies provided in equity, by law or under the contract.
               TEA may exercise any other right, remedy or privilege which may be available to it under applicable law
               of the state and any other applicable law or may proceed by appropriate court action to enforce the
               provisions of the contract, or to recover damages for the breach of any agreement being derived from
               the contract. The exercise of any of the foregoing remedies will not constitute a termination of the
               contract unless TEA notifies Contractor in writing prior to the exercise of such remedy.
               Contractor shall remain liable for all covenants and indemnities under the contract. Contractor shall be
               liable for all costs and expenses, including court costs, incurred by TEA with respect to the enforcement
               of any of the remedies listed herein.
          3.   Termination Due to Changes in Law: If federal or state laws or regulations or other federal or state
               requirements are amended or judicially interpreted so that either party cannot reasonably fulfill this
               contract and if the parties cannot agree to an amendment that would enable substantial continuation of
               the contract, the parties shall be discharged from any further obligations under this contract.
          4.   Rights upon Termination or Expiration of Contract: In the event that the contract is terminated for
               any reason, or upon its expiration, TEA shall retain ownership of all associated work products and
               documentation obtained from Contractor under the contract.
          5.   Survival of Terms: Termination of the contract for any reason shall not release Contractor from any
               liability or obligation set forth in the contract that is expressly stated to survive any such termination or
               by its nature would be intended to be applicable following any such termination, including the provisions
               regarding confidentiality, indemnification, transition, records, audit, property rights, dispute resolution,
               invoice and fees verification.
          6.   Contract Transition: In the event a subsequent competitive solicitation is awarded to a New
               Contractor, the Outgoing Contractor shall hand-over to the New Contractor all “Works” including but not
               limited to the following: data, materials, database access, intellectual property, source code, training
               materials, access to websites, asset transfer, and maintenance of service commitments. The purpose
               of transition planning is to ensure a seamless and continuous service when changing from one contract
               to another. The Outgoing Contractor will begin shipping, transmitting or providing access to all
               appropriate materials and data to the New Contractor within 10 days of announcement of award at the
               New Contractor's expense for data processing and production, packing and shipping. The Outgoing
               Contractor will be responsible for providing the services identified in the contract until all records have
               been completely transferred to the New Contractor. The Outgoing Contractor is responsible for
               performing due diligence to ensure that all the transition activities are identified and completed during
               the contract transition.
RFP # 701-16-020                                                                                        Rev 10.21.15
                                                           27
                                                                                                      ATTACHMENT B



               The Outgoing Contractor shall submit to TEA requested reports and data. TEA will not release the final
               invoice until all materials are returned to TEA or their designee. TEA Project Manager shall approve
               the Transition Plan prior to its implementation. The Transition Plan must minimize the impacts on
               continuity of operations and maintain communication with TEA Project Manager and the New
               Contractor.
TT.   Amendments: All amendments to this contract will be in a manner as prescribed by TEA Contracting Process
      and are, subject to Paragraph B of the General Provisions and will be made on AMENDMENT TO TEA
      STANDARD CONTRACT form. All amendments will be initiated by TEA PCAS staff. An Amendment to this
      contract will become effective on the date of signature of TEA or the effective date shown on the amendment
      document whichever is first.
      If the initial major contract (defined as expected value of $10 million or more) solicitation document submitted to
      the CPA Contract Advisory Team (CAT) changes substantially, agencies are required to resubmit their solicitation
      documents(s) for CAT review. Changes in the major contract solicitation are considered substantial when: 1)
      the solicitation change caused the estimated value for the original term of the contract, not including renewal
      periods, to increase by 25% or more; 2) or there are significant revisions, deletions and/or additions to the
      specifications, statement of work (SOW), set(s) of deliverables, performance measures, payment methodology,
      etc.
          1.   Contractor is permitted to re-budget among direct cost categories within the approved budget to meet
               unanticipated requirements and to make limited changes 25% or up to $1,000 in a direct category in
               the approved budget without the issuance of a written Amendment as long as the total budget amount
               does not change. Contractors are required to report deviations from budget and request prior approvals
               from the TEA Project Manager. Additionally, a revised budget document must be submitted to TEA
               Project Manager for approval. Once approved, the documents must be submitted to the Contract staff
               for incorporation into the contract file. Failure to submit the budget documents will result in invoices
               being rejected or payment delayed.
          2.  Written Amendments are required for the following contract changes:
                a. Any revision which would result in the need for additional funding;
                b. Any revision to the scope of work, deliverables, or objectives of the contract (regardless of
                     whether there is an associated budget revision requiring prior approval) additionally increases
                     of 25% or more for major contracts must be approved by the Texas Comptroller;
                c. A request to extend the period of the contract;
                d. Any reduction of funds or reduction in the scope of work;
                e. Whenever a line item within a class/object code is added;
                f. An increase in the quantity of capital outlay item(s) requested; and
                g. An increase or decrease in the number of positions charged to contract.
    All Amendments must be signed by both parties.
UU. Payment: Payment for goods or services purchased with state-appropriated funds will be issued by electronic
    Direct Deposit from the State Treasury. Direct Deposit is the preferred method of payment. Any payment owed
    by TEA must be transmitted electronically to Contractor no later than 30 days after the later of:
          (1) Day on which TEA received the goods;
          (2) Date the performance of the service under the contract is completed; or
          (3) Day on which TEA received the complete and correct invoice for goods or services.
      Invoices must be submitted to TEAAccountsPayable@tea.texas.gov and TEA Project Manager.
      Additional information and a Direct Deposit                Authorization    application   may    be    found    at:
      https://fmx.cpa.state.tx.us/fm/payment/index.php.
          A.   Payment for service(s) described in this contract is contingent upon satisfactory completion of the
               Deliverables and Services Review and Acceptance Process. Contractor must submit final deliverables
               to TEA for review and approval prior to invoicing. These include test items developed under the contract.
               “Final” deliverable means a deliverable that, in the belief and testimony of Contractor, is in final
               completed form and in compliance with all required specifications as defined by project documentation
               and this contract. TEA will review each deliverable, including test items, submitted by Contractor for
               quality and alignment to the deliverable definition agreed to under the “Deliverables and Services
               Definition Process”. TEA will have 15 working days to approve a deliverable or request revisions to the
RFP # 701-16-020                                                                                      Rev 10.21.15
                                                          28
                                                                                                      ATTACHMENT B



               deliverable. TEA must review and approve any deliverable before it may be invoiced by Contractor. If
               TEA finds a submitted deliverable to be substandard or not in compliance with the deliverable definition
               agreed to under the “Deliverables and Services Definition Process” provided by the TEA Program
               Manager, located in the Service Level Agreement or the Contract Monitoring Tool. Contractor will have
               10 working days to provide a Corrective Action Plan and address the quality or other compliance
               requirement and resubmit the deliverable. Additional costs incurred by Contractor that result from
               repeated submissions and revising of substandard deliverables will be borne solely by Contractor and
               not charged against the contract or to TEA. This process will apply to all deliverables and requirements
               of the Contract, including test items developed. This does not preclude an arrangement that allows
               Contractor to bill against a deliverable as progress is made toward completing that deliverable, so long
               as documentation of such progress in a form and nature satisfactory to TEA is provided and is approved
               by TEA. It is up to Contractor to request incremental billing based on progress towards a deliverable,
               and such a request must be approved by TEA prior to submission of any invoice by Contractor. TEA
               reserves the right to reject and not provide payment for deliverables found to be substandard or not in
               compliance with the deliverable definition agreed to under the “Deliverables and Services Definition
               Process”, including test items developed under the contract. Contractor is strongly encouraged to
               collaborate with TEA on draft versions of any deliverables or services and request review(s) of such
               draft versions before submitting a final version.
          B.   Retainage: TEA may withhold 5% or less of each payment as retainage for certain projects. Retainage
               fees must be stated in the competitive solicitation and documented in the contract. The fees may not
               be arbitrarily imposed after execution of the Contract. The release of retainage shall be requested in
               the final invoice.
          C.   Unless otherwise stated, payment under this contract will be made upon performance of services based
               upon submission of an expenditure report/invoice, properly prepared and certified, outlining
               expenditures by cost category. Include the contract number, purchase order number, and the Texas
               Comptroller of Public Accounts Texas Identification Number (TIN) on all invoices/expenditure reports.
               The cost categories provided in the expenditure report/invoice must coincide with the cost categories
               detailed in the approved budget. A list of tasks/activities performed during the invoice period must
               accompany the expenditure report/invoice. The final expenditure report/invoice is due within 45 days
               after the end of the contract. Payment on the final expenditure report is contingent upon receipt of all
               reports/products required by this contract.
          D.   An encumbrance, accounts payable, and expenditure, as with all other contract accounting terms, will
               be as defined in the Financial Accounting and Reporting Module of TEA Financial Accountability System
               Resource Guide. All goods must have been received and all services rendered by the ending date of
               this contract in order for Contractor to include these costs as either expenditures or as accounts payable
               and, thereby, recover funds due. In no manner shall encumbrances be considered or reflected as
               accounts payable or as expenditures.
          E.   Contractor who is indebted or owes delinquent taxes to the state will have any payments under the
               contract applied toward the debt or delinquent taxes owed the state until the amount is paid in full,
               regardless of when the debt or delinquency was incurred. TEA shall determine whether a payment law
               prohibits the Comptroller from issuing a warrant or initiating an electronic funds transfer to a person
               before TEA enters into a written contract with that person.
      Contractor may verify its account status by accessing the Texas Comptroller’s website at
      https://fmx.cpa.state.tx.us/fm/pubs/purchase/restricted/index.php?section=indebted&page=persons_indebted
VV.   Prohibition of text messaging and emailing while driving during official federal grant business: Federal
      grant recipients and their grant personnel are prohibited from texting messaging while driving a government
      owned vehicle or while driving their own privately owned vehicle during official grant business, or from using
      government supplied electronic equipment to text message or email while driving. Recipients must comply with
      these conditions under Executive Order 13513, “Federal Leadership On Reducing Text Messaging While
      Driving,” effective October 1, 2009.
WW. Insurance: Contractor represents and warrants that it will, within five business days of being requested by TEA,
    provide TEA with current certificates of insurance or other proof acceptable to TEA of the following insurance
    coverage:


RFP # 701-16-020                                                                                      Rev 10.21.15
                                                          29
                                                                                                      ATTACHMENT B



      Workers Compensation & Employers Liability: Contractor must maintain Workers' Compensation insurance
      coverage in accordance with statutory limits.
      Workers Compensation: Statutory Limits
      Employers Liability: Each Accident $1,000,000
      Disease- Each Employee $1,000,000
      Disease-Policy Limit $1,000,000

      This state of Texas website (Coverage starts with 406 of the Labor code) addresses what Texas requires may
      be found at: http://www.tdi.texas.gov/wc/act/index.html
      Commercial General Liability: Occurrence based:
      Bodily Injury and Property Damage
      Each occurrence limit: $1,000,000;
      Aggregate limit: $2,000,000;
      Medical Expense each person: $5,000;
      Personal Injury and Advertising Liability: $1,000,000;
      Products /Completed Operations Aggregate Limit: $2,000,000; and
      Damage to Premises Rented to You: $50,000

      Contractor represents and warrants that all of the above coverage is with companies licensed in the state of
      Texas, with “A” rating from A.M. Best, and authorized to provide the corresponding coverage. Contractor also
      represents and warrants that all policies contain endorsements prohibiting cancellation except upon at least 30
      days prior written notice to TEA. Contractor represents and warrants that it shall maintain the above insurance
      coverage during the term of this contract, and shall provide TEA with an executed copy of the policies immediately
      upon request.

XX.   Force Majeure: Neither Contractor nor TEA shall be liable to the other for any delay in, or failure of performance,
      of any requirement included in any contract resulting from this RFP caused by force majeure. The existence of
      such causes of delay or failure shall extend the period of performance until after the causes of delay or failure
      have been removed provided the non-performing party exercises all reasonable due diligence to perform. Force
      majeure is defined as acts of God, war, fires, explosions, hurricanes, floods, failure of transportation, or other
      causes that are beyond the reasonable control of either party and that by exercise of due foresight such party
      could not reasonably have been expected to avoid, and which, by the exercise of all reasonable due diligence,
      such party is unable to overcome. Each party must inform the other in writing, with proof of receipt, within three
      business days of the existence of such force majeure, or otherwise waive this right as a defense.


YY.   Drug Free Workplace Policy: Contractor shall comply with the applicable provisions of the Drug-Free Work
      Place Act of 1988 (Public Law 100-690, Title V, Subtitle D; 41 U.S.C. 701 ET SEQ.) and maintain a drug-free
      work environment; and the final rule, government-wide requirements for drug-free work place (grants), issued by
      the Office of Management and Budget and the Department of Defense (32 CFR Part 280, Subpart F) to
      implement the provisions of the Drug-Free Work Place Act of 1988 is incorporated by reference and Contractor
      shall comply with the relevant provisions thereof, including any amendments to the final rule that may hereafter
      be issued.
ZZ.   Abandonment or Default: If Contractor defaults on the contract, TEA reserves the right to cancel the contract
      without notice and either re-solicit or re-award the contract to the next best responsive and responsible Proposer.
      The defaulting Contractor will not be considered in the re-solicitation and may not be considered in future
      solicitations for the same type of work, unless the specification or scope of work significantly changed. The
      period of suspension will be determined by TEA based on the seriousness of the default.
The Texas Government Code and Family Code sites referenced in this document may be viewed at:
http://www.statutes.legis.state.tx.us/
The      Texas    Administrative      Code    site   referenced   in    this   document      may     be    viewed     at:
http://texreg.sos.state.tx.us/public/readtac$ext.viewtac


AFFIRMATIONS:



RFP # 701-16-020                                                                                      Rev 10.21.15
                                                           30
                                                                                                       ATTACHMENT B



Proposer has read, understands, and agrees to be bound to the terms and conditions stated in the RFP if a contract is
awarded to Proposer pursuant to this RFP. By signature hereon, the Proposer certifies that:
All statements and information prepared and submitted in the response to this RFP are current, complete and accurate.
Proposer has not given, offered to give, not intends to give at any time hereafter, any economic opportunity, future
employment, gift, loan, gratuity, special discount, trip, favor, or service to a public servant in connection with the
submitted response.
Pursuant to Texas Government Code, Title 10, Subtitle D, Section 2155.004(b), the Proposer certifies that the individual
or business entity named in this bid or contract is not ineligible to receive the specified contract and acknowledges that
this contract may be terminated and payment withheld if this certification is inaccurate.
Texas Government Code §2252.901 prohibits the agency into entering into an employment contract, a professional
services contract, or a consulting services contract with a former or retired TEA employee before the first anniversary
of their last date of regular employment. If TEA enters into a “professional services” contract with a corporation, firm,
or other business entity that employs a former or retired employee during the first year of the past employee’s departure
from the agency, the former or retired employee is restricted from performing services on projects that the employee
worked on while employed at TEA.

Texas Government Code §572.069. CERTAIN EMPLOYMENT FOR FORMER STATE OFFICER OR EMPLOYEE
RESTRICTED. A former state officer or employee of a state agency who during the period of state service or
employment participated on behalf of a state agency in a procurement or contract negotiation involving a person may
not accept employment from that person before the second anniversary of the date the officer's or employee's service
or employment with the state agency ceased.

Under Section 2155.006(b) of the Texas Government Code, a state agency may not accept a bid or award a contract,
including a contract for which purchasing authority is delegated to a state agency, that includes proposed financial
participation by a person who, during the five year period preceding the date of the bid or award, has been: (1) convicted
of violating a federal law in connection with a contract awarded by the federal government for relief, recovery, or
reconstruction efforts as a result of Hurricane Rita, as defined by Section 39.459, Utilities Code, Hurricane Katrina, or
any other disaster occurring after September 24, 2005; or (2) assessed a penalty in a federal civil or administrative
enforcement action in connection with a contract awarded by the federal government for relief, recovery, or
reconstruction efforts as a result of Hurricane Rita, as defined by Section 39.459, Utilities Code, Hurricane Katrina, or
any other disaster occurring after September 24, 2005.
Proposer certifies that they are in compliance with Texas Government Code, Title 6, Subtitle B, Section 669.003 of the
Government Code, relating to contracting with executive head of a state agency. If Section 669.003 applies, Proposer
will complete the following information in order for the bid to be evaluated.


Name of Former Executive: ______________________________________________________________________

Name of State Agency: _________________________________________________________________________

Date of Separation from State Agency: _____________________________________________________________

Position with Bidder: ______________________________ Date of Employment with Bidder: __________________

Pursuant to Texas Government code, Title 10, Subtitle D, Section 2155.004(a), the bidder has not received
compensation for participation in the preparation of specifications for this solicitation.
Contractor shall provide to Agency, Contractor's nine (9) digit Federal Employer's Identification Number (FEI#) or Social
Security Number (SSN) if Contractor is an individual, or Contractor's fourteen (14) Digit State of Texas Payee
Identification Number (TIN). If Contractor is incorporated, Contractor shall also provide to Agency the corporation's
charter number issued by the Texas Secretary of State's office. Information provided by the contractor will be verified
by TEA.

                                      Contractor’s FEI#
                                      Contractor’s SSN
                                      Contractor’s TIN
RFP # 701-16-020                                                                                       Rev 10.21.15
                                                           31
                                                                                                       ATTACHMENT B



                                      Contractor’s charter #

TEA has a policy of being a smoke-free agency. The policy reflects our commitment to providing a healthy environment
for all our employees and visitors. This policy prohibits smoking within any state building or on the grounds. Contractor,
by acceptance of this contract, agrees to abide by this policy when on the property of {Agency}.
The undersigned is an authorized official for the Proposer and certifies that the proposal submitted with this “Execution
of Offer, Affirmation of Terms and Conditions, and Proposal Preferences” instrument is in full compliance with the
provisions expressly stated above. I further certify that the proposal submitted with this instrument is allowed to claim
any of the Chapter 2155 Texas Government Code preferences checked below:


PROPOSAL PREFERENCES
The Proposer if selected as the Contractor, will be required to purchase products and materials produced in this state
when they are available at a price and time comparable to products and materials produced outside of Texas (TX Govt.
Code § 2155.4441).
Check below if claiming a preference included in Chapter 2155 of the Texas Government Code and in Rule 1 TAC
113.8

       § 2155.441     Products of persons with mental or physical disabilities
       § 2155.442     Energy efficient products
       § 2155.443     Rubberized asphalt paving material

       § 2155.444     Texas produced supplies, materials, or equipment; or USA supplies, materials, or equipment
                      over foreign products
       TAC§ 2038 D Preference to services offered by a Texas bidder
       § 2155.444     Texas agriculture products
       § 2155.445     Recycled, remanufactured, or environmentally sensitive products made of recycled materials
       § 2155.446     Paper containing recycled fibers
       § 2155.447     Recycled motor oil and lubricants

       § 2155.449     Products produced in facilities on rehabilitated property as certified by section 361.609 of the
                      Texas Health and Safety Code
       § 2155.449     Products and services from economically depressed or blighted areas

       § 2155.449     Products and services from Historically Underutilized Business or small business pursuant to
                      the goals and objectives stated in chapter 2161 of the Texas Government Code
       § 2155.444     Goods produced or offered by service-disabled veterans.
       § 2155.445     Preference to manufacture that has recycle program for computer equipment.
       § 2155.452     Preference to contractors providing foods of higher nutritional value.

In compliance with this RFP, and subject to all the conditions herein, the undersigned offers and agrees to furnish any
or all commodities or services at the prices quoted in the proposal or bid. When a Texas business address shown
hereon that address is, in fact, the legal business address of Proposer and proposer qualifies as a Texas Resident
Bidder Under TAC Title 34, Part 1, Chapter 20.


 PROPOSER/COMPANY NAME:


 STREET ADDRESS:


 CITY/STATE/ZIP:



RFP # 701-16-020                                                                                       Rev 10.21.15
                                                           32
                                                                                               ATTACHMENT B




 TELEPHONE #:


 FACSIMILE #:


 EMAIL ADDRESS:

 NAME OF PROPOSER’S AUTHORIZED
 AGENT:

 TITLE OF PROPOSER’S AUTHORIZED AGENT:


 SIGNATURE OF AUTHORIZED AGENT:


              THIS ATTACHMENT “B” MUST BE SIGNED AND RETURNED WITH YOUR PROPOSAL
Contractor acknowledges that under state law and TEA policy, they may not disclose any information during the
solicitation process (upon opening the proposal and during negotiations). The solicitation process must remain
confidential and is exempt from open records until such time that a contract is awarded. Failure to abide to this
requirement will result in disqualification.




RFP # 701-16-020                                                                               Rev 10.21.15
                                                       33
                                                                                         ATTACHMENT C




                               Texas Education Agency
                          Historically Underutilized Business
                              Subcontracting Plan (HSP)
                                            Separate document


Definition of a Historically Underutilized Business (HUB)

    A. At least 51% owned by an Asian Pacific American, Black American, Hispanic American, Native
       American and/or American woman,
    B. A for-profit entity that has not exceeded the size standards prescribed by 34 TAC §20.11, and
       has its principal place of business in Texas, and
    C. Has an owner residing in Texas with a proportionate interest that actively participates in the
       control, operations and management of the entity's affairs.
    D. Service Disabled Veteran, as defined by 38 United States Code (U.S.C.), Section 101(2) who
       have a service-connected disability as defined by 38 U.S.C. Section 101(16), and have a
       disability rating of 20 percent or more as determined by the Department of Veterans Affairs or the
       Department of Defense.

*Note: Veterans are not required to be United States citizens; however, they must reside in Texas.

**Note: Sole proprietorships must be 100 percent owned and controlled by an individual meeting the
Criteria above. In addition, each entity within a joint venture is required to be HUB certified.

The statewide HUB Program facilitates the use of HUBs in state procurement and provides information on
the state's procurement process to minority, woman-owned and service disabled veteran owned
businesses.

In accordance with 34 TAC §20.13, each state agency shall make a good faith effort to utilize HUBs in
contracts for construction, services (including professional and consulting services) and commodities
purchases.

Contractors seeking certification as a HUB are required to submit a completed HUB certification
application and supporting documentation to the statewide HUB Program.

Questions regarding the TEA HUB Program or the HUB Subcontracting Plan may be directed to the TEA
HUB Office: HUBOffice@tea.texas.gov.




RFP # 701-16-020                                                                           Rev 9.15.15
                                                    34
                                                                               ATTACHMENT D


                             (FORMAT FOR COVER PAGE)

                                 PROJECT PROPOSAL
                                    Submitted to the
                                Texas Education Agency
                   Purchasing, Contracts and Agency Services Division
                                  RFP #: 701-16-020


TITLE OF PROPOSED PROJECT:                Accessible Instructional Materials Outreach


                                          Name and address of organization submitting proposal
PROPOSER ORGANIZATION:
                                          (include zip code)


                                          Show Proposer organization Federal Employer's
PROPOSER ORGANIZATION
                                          Identification Number or Texas Identification Number
IDENTIFICATION NUMBER:
                                          (TINS)


                                          Name, position, email, and telephone number of person
PROPOSAL DEVELOPED BY:
                                          responsible for development of proposal


                                          Name, position, email, and telephone number of person to
PROJECT ADMINISTRATOR:
                                          be in charge of proposed project


                                          Name, position, email, and telephone number of official
PROPOSAL TRANSMITTED BY:                  committing the Proposer organization to the proposed
                                          project


                                          Name, position, email, and telephone number of official
CONTRACTING OFFICER:                      with authority to negotiate contracts for Proposer
                                          organization


DURATION OF PROJECT:                      Beginning and ending dates of proposed project


TOTAL BUDGET FOR PROPOSED PROJECT:        Total of projected expenditures listed in budget section


                                               Check box if proposal being submitted contains
CONTAINS PROPRIETARY INFORMATION:
                                               proprietary information

                                               We hereby accept by the submission of the proposal
ACCEPTANCE OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS:            the Execution of Offer, “Contract Terms and
                                               Conditions, Affirmations and Proposal Preferences”

DATE SUBMITTED:                           Date proposal is submitted to TEA




RFP # 701-16-020                                                                 Rev 9.15.15
                                          35
                                                                                                        ATTACHMENT F



                                          SCHEDULE OF TASK COMPLETION

 Title of Proposed Project:

 Proposer Organization
 (Name):

 Begin Date:

 Ending Date:



 Task/Activity Numbers                                   Projected                Projected Cost
                                                         Completion Date
 Task 1 (title or description)
 Activity 1.1
 Activity 1.2
 Total Task 1

 Task 2 (title or description)
 Activity 2.1
 Activity 2.2
 Total Task 2

 Task 3 (title or description)
 Activity 3.1
 Activity 3.2
 Total Task 3

 Total Budget




Cost may also be by activity if feasible but must be shown, at a minimum, for task total.

Selected proposer will be reimbursed for actual expenditures upon satisfactory performance of services/completion of tasks
and upon submittal of properly prepared and certified invoices/expenditure reports.




RFP # 701-16-020                                                                                         Rev 9.15.15
                                                             36
