    Improving the Odds…




                    Supplemental Workbook




  How to Prepare
  Government Contract
  Proposals
                           February 2014
                           This workbook is designed to serve as a guide for preparing
                           government contract proposals. It also serves as a
                           supplemental workbook to the online course: How to
                           Prepare Government Contract Proposals.




U.S. Small Business
Administration
Office of Government
Contracting and Business
Development
Slide 1




                                       Improving the Odds…
                                     How to Prepare Government
                                         Contract Proposals



                                             US Small Business Administration
                                      Office of Government Contracting & Business Development
                                                           February 2014




This is about preparing proposals that win federal contracts.

Welcome to SBA’s training module, How to Prepare Government Contract Proposals.




          NOTE:     This supplemental workbook tracks the slides and narrative
          contained in the online training course, How to Prepare Government
          Contract Proposals. The online version of the training program, with audio
          can be accessed at: www.sba.gov/gcclassroom. For the convenience of users,
          all hyperlinks contained in the copied slides are included as links at the end
          of the workbook.                                                                      2




GCBD|joconnor |February|2014
                                                                                                Page
Slide 2




                       Introduction
                       Proposal Preparation

                         •   Course is comprehensive with multiple sections covering a variety topics
                             that define proposal preparation
                         •   About building an amazing story that touches all components of a
                             contract proposal – such that a compelling case is made for a firm – your
                             firm -- to be the best solution
                         •   Indexed so the user can easily go forward or back to any section at any
                             time




                                                                                       Improving the Odds…

                                                 How to Prepare Government Contract Proposals




The information presented is straight-forward and comprehensive. It includes multiple sections
covering a variety of topics that define and explain proposal preparation.

The course is about building an amazing story that touches all components of a contract
proposal – such that a compelling case is made for a firm -- your firm -- to be the best solution.

Importantly, the material is also indexed so you can easily go forward or back to any section at
any time.




                                                                                                             3
                                                                                                             Page
Slide 3




                       Course Contents
                       Proposal Preparation

                                                 CONTENTS
                                              Learning Objectives
                                              Expectations (don’t always match reality)
                                         1.    Building the Foundation
                                         2.    Types of Solicitations
                                         3.    Standard Forms
                                         4.    How to (actually) Write the Proposal
                                         5.    Costs and Pricing
                                         6.    Relationships and the Wisdom of Others
                                         7.    Resources and Assistance
                                         8.    Reflection and Application
                                                                                           Improving the Odds…

                                              How to Prepare Government Contract Proposals




Key topics in this training include: instructions on building a foundation; an overview of the
types of solicitations and Standard Forms used by the government; a frank discussion about
how to write a proposal; costs and pricing guidelines; the benefits of learning from others; a
menu of helpful resources; and finally, a push to apply what you have learned.




 Notes:
                                                                                                                 4
                                                                                                                 Page
Slide 4




                       Learning Objectives
                       Proposal Preparation

                         •   Understand the types of solicitations and contracts used by the federal
                             government
                         •   Learn how to respond appropriately to government solicitations with
                             proposals that enhance your chances of winning a contract




                                                                                       Improving the Odds…

                                                 How to Prepare Government Contract Proposals




The objectives for this course are simple and two-fold: (1) to help small businesses understand
the types of solicitations and contracts used by the federal government and, (2) to learn how to
respond appropriately to government solicitations with proposals that win contracts.




 Notes:
                                                                                                             5
                                                                                                             Page
Slide 5




                       Expectations (don’t always match reality)
                       Proposal Preparation

                         •   Many companies aspire to do contractual work for the federal
                             government, most will not…
                         •   Many reasons – some firms are not qualified, some are not competitive,
                             some will just talk about it, and others just don’t understand (or are
                             intimidated by) the proposal process
                         •   Best preparation is learning about and understanding the process, aligning
                             skills with needs and following-through




                                                                                       Improving the Odds…

                                                How to Prepare Government Contract Proposals




But first, a statement about expectations. Many companies aspire to do contractual work for
the federal government. The reality however, is most will not.

There are many reasons for this. Some firms are not qualified, some are not competitive, some
will just talk about it, and others, well they just don’t understand how to prepare proposals that
get attention and win contracts. It is also true that sometimes the government doesn’t buy the
types of goods and services you sell, or in quantities that make it feasible for you to bid.

Expectations don’t always match reality. The best preparation for winning government
contracts is understanding the process, aligning skills with needs and following-through. In
other words, prepare, align and execute – that will help you beat the odds.


                                                                                                             6
                                                                                                             Page
Slide 6




                                   Building the Foundation
                                             Part 1




                                                                         Improving the Odds…

                                   How to Prepare Government Contract Proposals




Part 1. Building the foundation.




 Notes:
                                                                                               7
                                                                                               Page
Slide 7




                       Building the Foundation
                       Proposal Preparation

                           •   Define what you do
                           •   Register in the System for Award Management (SAM), including the
                               Dynamic Small Business Search (DSBS)
                           •   Develop a compelling small business profile and capability statement
                           •   Find contract opportunities
                           •   Be realistic…

                                                     GC 101 Training Series
                                                      www.sba.gov/gcclassroom




                                                                                     Improving the Odds…

                                               How to Prepare Government Contract Proposals




The first step in proposal preparation is building a solid foundation.

A foundation that includes defining what you do in government terms, registering in SAM, the
government database of potential and existing federal contractors, developing a compelling
small business profile and capability statement, including a Dynamic Small Business Search
profile and finally, finding contract opportunities that are suitable for you to bid on.

This is all preliminary before preparing a contract proposal for the government….

If you are new to the government contracting space, consider reviewing the 3-part GC 101
training series. This series will provide you with an understanding of contract basics. You really
do need to understand the basics, before you can appreciate how to prepare a contract
proposal.
                                                                                                           8
                                                                                                           Page
Slide 8




                       Define Your Products and Services
                       Proposal Preparation - Building the Foundation


                        •   Government/firms use the North American Industry Classification System
                            (NAICS) to identify products and services
                        •   DOD uses Federal Supply Group and Class (FSG/FSC)
                        •   D-U-N-S numbers are used to identify prospective vendors
                        •   Commercial and Government Entity (CAGE) code used to identify a
                            contractor’s facility at a specific location




                                                                                     Improving the Odds…

                                               How to Prepare Government Contract Proposals




The government is a unique buyer. Federal agencies use the North American Industry
Classification System, more commonly referred to as a NAICS code, to identify products and
services by industry type. The NAICS code is a six digit number that describes or defines a
particular product or service a company supplies. A firm will generally have a primary NAICS
code, but can have multiple NAICS codes as well.

You can find and define the NAICS codes for your products and services by using the referenced
hyperlink. It is also important to note that you can use your NAICS code or codes to conduct
online searches at the websites of numerous federal agencies to learn what they are buying. A
NAICS code, or codes, identifies the products and services your company supplies. It does not
uniquely identify your business. The Federal government uses D-U-N-S numbers, provided by
Dun & Bradstreet, to identify prospective vendors. You can obtain a D-U-N-S number at no cost
to you by clicking on the hyperlink.

To participate in contract opportunities within the Department of Defense, a firm will also need
to know its Federal Supply Group or Class code. In addition, the Commercial and Government
Entity or (CAGE) Code is a five-character ID number used extensively within the federal
government. The CAGE code is used to support a variety of mechanized systems throughout
the government and provides a standardized method of identifying a given facility at a specific
location.
                                                                                                           9
                                                                                                           Page
Slide 9




                       Register in SAM
                       Proposal Preparation - Building the Foundation


                          •   The System for Award Management (SAM) is the primary source for
                              agencies to learn about prospective vendors
                          •   Government maintained database
                          •   A firm must register in SAM to participate as a seller in the Federal space
                          •   Small firms should also maintain an updated Dynamic Small Business
                              Search (DSBS) profile as part of SAM




                                                                                        Improving the Odds…

                                                 How to Prepare Government Contract Proposals




The System for Award Management, more commonly known as SAM, is the primary source for
agencies to learn about prospective vendors.

SAM is a government-maintained free database of companies wanting to do business with the
government. This database is a marketing tool for businesses and a searchable list of
prospective vendors for the government.

A firm must register in the SAM system to participate as a seller in the federal space. Further, a
firm’s profile in SAM must be updated at least once every 12 months – for the profile to stay
active. Completing an accurate and appealing small business profile in the government’s SAM
system is an important, foundational step in marketing goods and services to the federal
government. As such, you should learn as much as possible about the SAM system. That
includes accessing the SAM site and performing multiple searches, as if you were looking to hire
a firm similar to your own business. Review profiles of businesses in similar areas of expertise
and use them as guides when developing your own business profile.

Also, treat your SAM and Dynamic Small Business Profile as your business resume. And, as with
any resume, it should be regularly reviewed, updated and strengthened. Importantly, spelling
and grammar do matter as they reflect your attention to detail and can form a contracting
officer’s first impression of your firm.
                                                                                                              10
                                                                                                              Page
Slide 10




                       Develop a Compelling Capability Statement
                       Proposal Preparation - Building the Foundation

                          •   Prepare a comprehensive Capability Statement outlining management,
                              technical and business strengths – can help in developing a “line card “ or
                              brochure
                          •   Statement should include:
                               –   Specific capabilities and skills
                               –   Past performance history, with specific projects and value of contracts
                               –   Awards and commendations
                               –   Resumes of key management
                          •   Seek feedback and refine accordingly
                          •   Will serve as an important foundational element in the preparation of
                              proposals that respond to government solicitations
                                                                                               Improving the Odds…

                                                   How to Prepare a Government Contract Proposal




A business should prepare and maintain a comprehensive-yet concise-capability statement that
clearly outlines its management, technical and business strengths. This too is important!

Such a statement should include specific capabilities and skills, past performance history,
awards and commendations, and resumes of key management personnel. A contracting
officer’s time is limited and valuable. A simple one page capability statement is more likely to
be viewed, while a 5-10 page document may be tossed on a pile. There’s time later on for a
more detailed description of your firm’s capabilities. Initially, you just want to pique their
interest in you. In addition, you can use a well developed capability statement to create a “line
card” or brochure that you can use for marketing.

As with your SAM profile, you should seek regular feedback on your capability statement and
refine and update it accordingly. Your capability statement will likely serve as a foundational
element in preparing proposals in response to government solicitations.                                              11
                                                                                                                     Page
Slide 11




                      Seek Contract Opportunities (that justify preparing proposals)
                      Proposal Preparation - Building the Foundation


                        •   Find prime contract opportunities
                        •   Find Subcontract opportunities
                        •   Market directly to agencies
                        •   Subscribe to bid-matching services
                        •   Use procurement vehicles




                                                                                     Improving the Odds…

                                               How to Prepare Government Contract Proposals




A key part of building a solid foundation is seeking contract opportunities that make sense or
that justify spending the time and resources to prepare contract proposals. This is an important
aspect of proposal preparation. A business can waste a lot of time and money responding to
solicitations that do not make sense.




 Notes:
                                                                                                           12
                                                                                                           Page
Slide 12




                      Find Contract Opportunities
                      Proposal Preparation - Building the Foundation


                         •   Federal government lists contract opportunities online at www.fbo.gov
                         •   Learn more about FBO: User Guides, Training Videos & FAQs




                                                                                    Improving the Odds…

                                              How to Prepare Government Contract Proposals




Knowing how to find contract opportunities is critical. A key resource is the government’s
website, Federal Business Opportunities.

To outreach contract opportunities to the public, the federal government operates a robust,
online service called Federal Business Opportunities, but more commonly known as FBO or
FedBizOpps. This single entry, government-wide website profiles available business
opportunities and is one of the most powerful tools available to help a firm become successful
in government contracting. The online tool identifies contract opportunities over $25,000.00.

Firms can also view past awarded contracts in the FBO – which may help you with preparing
future proposals or bids. This is important.


                                                                                                          13
                                                                                                          Page
Slide 13




                       Find Subcontract Opportunities
                       Proposal Preparation - Building the Foundation

                         •   Subcontracting can be profitable
                         •   Performing as a subcontractor can prepare you to be a prime contractor in
                             the future
                         •   SBA maintains a database of subcontracting opportunities. This
                             searchable database is called SUB-Net
                         •   SBA also profiles on its website the Subcontracting Opportunities
                             Directory by state




                                                                                      Improving the Odds…

                                                How to Prepare Government Contract Proposals




An alternative to seeking prime contracts is to explore subcontracting opportunities.

Subcontracting with a prime contractor can be a profitable experience as well as a growth
opportunity for a business. To help small businesses find opportunities, SBA maintains, SUB-Net,
a searchable database of available subcontract opportunities. The SBA also displays on its
website the Subcontracting Opportunities Directory by state.

At your convenience, return to this slide and use the links to explore subcontracting
opportunities.




  Notes:                                                                                                    14
                                                                                                            Page
Slide 14




                      Use Procurement Vehicles
                      Proposal Preparation - Building the Foundation

                       •   Consolidated purchasing vehicles
                       •   Multiple Award Schedules
                            – Learn about GSA Schedules
                            – Learn about GWACS
                            – Some agencies offer agency-wide contract vehicles
                       •   Some Multiple Award Schedules maybe reserved specifically for small
                           firms




                                                                                       Improving the Odds…

                                                 How to Prepare Government Contract Proposals




The Federal government tries to benefit from economies of scale and make it easier for vendors
to sell to the government by establishing Multiple Award Schedules.

These schedules are often referred to as procurement vehicles. Two examples of this type of
contracting include General Services Administration (GSA) Schedules and Government Wide
Acquisition Contracts or (GWACs). Under the GSA Schedule, GSA negotiates prices and terms
with prospective vendors and enters into an agreement with those vendors. Under the
agreement, participating government agencies can purchase products and services from a
schedule of prospective vendors, according to prices and terms already agreed to by the
vendors. It is also important to note that some agencies offer agency-wide contract vehicles.

Procurement vehicles can be valuable tools for small businesses to gain access to contract
opportunities. Importantly, some multiple award schedules are exclusively set-aside for small
firms.                                                                                                       15
                                                                                                             Page
Slide 15




                       Subscribe to Bid-Matching Services
                       Proposal Preparation - Building the Foundation

                         •   Some companies subscribe to bid-matching services
                         •   Provide contract leads that match a client’s qualifications
                         •   Procurement Technical Assistance Centers (PTACs) offer free bid-matching
                             services -- find your local PTAC




                                                                                      Improving the Odds…

                                                How to Prepare Government Contract Proposals




Some companies subscribe to bid-matching services. Such services provide leads on
prospective contract opportunities that match a business’s qualifications. These services can do
much of the work associated with finding contract opportunities, but the business still has to
prepare the bid or proposal and win the contract.

It is also important to note that the FBO has a service which can alert you to bid opportunities.
PTACs also offer free bid matching services. PTACs, funded by the Department of Defense, can
be excellent overall procurement resource.




 Notes:
                                                                                                            16
                                                                                                            Page
Slide 16




                                    Types of Solicitations
                                           Part 2




                                                                        Improving the Odds…

                                  How to Prepare Government Contract Proposals




Part 2. Types of solicitations.




 Notes:
                                                                                              17
                                                                                              Page
Slide 17




                       Types of Solicitations
                       Proposal Preparation

                        •   Government contracting is big business
                        •   Bid package is usually a set of documents to which a bidder would develop
                            a responsive proposal
                        •   Solicitations used by the government typically come in three formats
                             –   Request for Quote (RFQ)
                             –   Request for Proposal (RFP)
                             –   Invitation for Bid (IFB)
                             –   Sources Sought (RFI)




                                                                                          Improving the Odds…

                                                    How to Prepare Government Contract Proposals




Government contracting is big business with thousands of contracts -- in hundreds of billions of
dollars -- being executed by the federal government each year.

The bid packages used by the government usually contain a set of documents to which a bidder
develops a responsive proposal. Such solicitations typically come in four primary formats or
types: Request for Quote (RFQ); Request for Proposal (RFP); Invitation for Bid (IFB); and, Source
Sought – Request for Information (RFI). Each of these solicitation types, as well as some of the
key forms required by the government are discussed in the following slides.




  Notes:
                                                                                                                18
                                                                                                                Page
Slide 18




                        Solicitation Numbers
                        Proposal Preparation – Types of Solicitations

                         •   Solicitation numbers are important to understand…….


                                                                   Fiscal Year
                                                                                    Contract Identifier

                                                SBA123-14-R-0000
                                Buying Office                Solicitation Type
                                                               Alpha Code




                                                                                        Improving the Odds…

                                                 How to Prepare Government Contract Proposals




To better understand the types of solicitations, let’s first look at the government’s numbering
system.

Each solicitation issued by the government is assigned a number. The number tells much about
the solicitation. The first six digits identify the buying facility. The second two digits indicate the
fiscal year the contract was issued in. The alpha character defines the type of solicitation –
which is both revealing and important. The R character – shown here -- indicates a request for
proposal. The last four digits represent the contract identifier or order number.

The alpha code is further explained in the next slide.



                                                                                                              19
                                                                                                              Page
Slide 19




                        About the Alpha Character
                        Proposal Preparation – Types of Solicitations

                         •   R     Request for Proposal
                         •   B/I   Sealed bid (IFB)
                         •   J     Reserved
                         •   T     RFQ under $25k
                                                                      Solicitation Type
                         •   Q     RFQ under $150k
                                                                        Alpha Code



                                                  SBA123-14-J-0000

                                                                                          Improving the Odds…

                                                  How to Prepare Government Contract Proposals




The alpha character or code used in the numbering system is important to understand.
Different letters mean different things.

For instance, R is for request for proposal, B is for sealed bid (sometimes the letter I is used), J is
reserved, T is for a request for quote under $25K, and Q is for a request for quote under $150k.




 Notes:
                                                                                                                20
                                                                                                                Page
Slide 20




                      Request for Quotation (RFQ)
                      Proposal Preparation – Types of Solicitations

                       •   RFQ is informational -- used by the government to obtain information and
                           quotations
                       •   Estimated value of the government’s need is expected to be under
                           $150,000 and simplified acquisition procedures will apply
                       •   RFQ may also be used in circumstances where simplified acquisition
                           procedures are not used
                       •   Bid package typically includes Standard Form 18 (SF18)




                                                                                     Improving the Odds…

                                               How to Prepare Government Contract Proposals




A Request for Quotation or RFQ is the type of solicitation used by the government to obtain
information and quotations, but the responses are not considered offers. This solicitation type
is typically used when the estimated value of the government’s need is expected to be under
$150,000 and simplified acquisition procedures will apply. An RFQ, however may also be used
in some circumstances where the estimate value of the government’s need exceeds the
simplified acquisition threshold.

An RFQ bid package typically includes Standard Form 18.




                                                                                                           21
                                                                                                           Page
Slide 21




                       Request for Proposal (RFP)
                       Proposal Preparation – Types of Solicitations

                        •   RFP is will result in a negotiated contract
                        •   Proposals are often discussed and negotiated with government buying
                            units and pricing, technical requirements and deliverables are subject to
                            change
                        •   Bid package typically includes Standard Form 33 (SF33) or Standard Form
                            1447 (SF1447)
                        •   Electronic procurement systems, such as GSA’s eBuy – offer a fully
                            electronic RFQ/RFP system




                                                                                       Improving the Odds…

                                                 How to Prepare Government Contract Proposals




Request for Proposals or RFPs are used in negotiated acquisitions to communicate government
requirements to prospective contractors and to solicit proposals.

RFPs for competitive acquisitions will, at a minimum, describe: the government's requirements,
anticipated terms and conditions that will apply, information required to be in the offeror's
proposal, and factors that will be used to evaluate the proposal. An RFP will result in a
negotiated contract.

An RFP bid package typically includes Standard Form 33 or Standard Form 1447. It is important
to note that some procurement systems, such as GSA’s eBuy – offer a fully electronic RFQ/RFP
system.

If you are unsure of any provision within an RFP -- ask the contracting officer for an explanation.
SBA, PTAC and other qualified counselors can also provide helpful guidance.                                  22
                                                                                                             Page
Slide 22




                        Invitation for Bid (IFB)
                        Proposal Preparation – Types of Solicitations

                         •   IFB is often referred to as a sealed bid solicitation
                         •   No discussions or negotiations – your “bid package speaks for itself”
                         •   Price is key
                         •   Bid package typically includes Standard Form 33 (SF33) or Standard Form
                             1447 (SF1447)




                                                                                       Improving the Odds…

                                                 How to Prepare Government Contract Proposals




An Invitation for Bid or IFB is often referred to as a sealed bid solicitation. There are typically no
discussions or negotiations with the government buying office and the bid package – when
issued -- is considered complete for bidding purposes. Among qualified bidders, price is
considered the key consideration by the government in awarding the contract.

Responsiveness to the solicitation’s terms and conditions are key to a successful bid. Be sure to
complete your bid package in accordance with the instructions. Non-responsive bids will be
eliminated from consideration.

An IFB bid package typically includes Standard Form 33 or Standard Form 1447.



 Notes:                                                                                                      23
                                                                                                             Page
Slide 23




                      Sources Sought (RFI)
                      Proposal Preparation – Types of Solicitations

                       •   Sources Sought, sometimes referred to as a Request for Information, is an
                           advance notice to communicate to potential bidder firms the
                           government’s interest in specific research and development projects
                       •   Used as a market research by contracting officers




                                                                                      Improving the Odds…

                                                How to Prepare Government Contract Proposals




Sources Sought, sometimes referred to as a Request for Information, is an advance notice to
communicate to potential bidder firms the government’s interest in specific research and
development projects.

This type of solicitation is used sometimes to determine the potential bidder interest or
universe for a specific procurement. It is also used as market research to determine whether or
not a small business set-aside is appropriate.




                                                                                                            24
                                                                                                            Page
Slide 24




                       Uniform Contract Format (Part I)
                       Proposal Preparation - Types of Solicitations

                        •   Uniform contract format contains four parts
                        •   Part I
                             –   Section A – Solicitation/Contract Form (SF 33, SF26, SF18 or SF1447)
                             –   Section B – List of supplies & services to be acquired
                             –   Section C – Outlines or explains the statement of work
                             –   Section D – Describes packaging requirements
                             –   Section E – Specifies inspection and acceptance
                             –   Section F – Describes delivery and performance
                             –   Section H – Outlines any special provisions
                                 FAR Part 14.201                                          FAR Part 15.204
                                  Sealed Bidding                                         Negotiated Contracts

                                                                                                Improving the Odds…

                                                    How to Prepare Government Contract Proposals




For most RFPs and IFBs, where simplified acquisition procedures are NOT applied, the
government requires the use of a uniform contract format. This format is described in the
noted FAR references and contains four parts and multiple sections.

Part I contains section A, which includes the use of Standard Form 33, Standard Form 26 or
Standard Form 1447. In some circumstances it may also include Standard Form 18 – which is a
Request for Quotations. Sections B – H include a list of supplies and services to be acquired, the
statement of work, packaging requirements, inspection and acceptance specifics, delivery and
performance requirements, and any special provisions.

Some of the provisions may only be incorporated by reference. However, you should go to the
FAR to read those provisions to avoid any unpleasant surprises later on. Be sure you understand
what you will be expected to do if you receive the contract award.
                                                                                                                      25
                                                                                                                      Page
Slide 25




                       Uniform Contract Format (Parts II–IV)
                       Proposal Preparation - Types of Solicitations

                        •   Part II
                             – Section I – Contract clauses
                        •   Part III
                             – Section J – List of attachments
                        •   Part IV
                             – Section K – Representations, certifications and other statements of offerors
                             – Section L – Instructions, conditions and notices to offerors or respondents
                             – Section M – Evaluation factors and award

                                 FAR Part 14.201                                         FAR Part 15.204
                                  Sealed Bidding                                        Negotiated Contracts

                                                                                               Improving the Odds…

                                                   How to Prepare Government Contract Proposals




Part II, section I, contains the clauses required by law or the FAR that govern the specific
contract.

Part III, section J, contains a list of all attachments applicable to the contract. And, Part IV,
sections K–M include information about representations and certifications – such as 8(a)
certifications – required of offerors, instructions, conditions and notices to offerors, and
importantly, section M outlines the evaluation factors that will be used to evaluate the award.

All parts and sections of the solicitation are important. However, Section C in Part I and Section
L in Part IV are particularly important and should be cross-referenced when reviewing the
solicitation.

It is also important to note ----- contract solicitations for bids estimated to be below the
simplified acquisition threshold or $150,000 will use a streamlined contract format and may or
may not use some of the parts and sections outlined in the uniform contract format.
                                                                                                                     26
                                                                                                                     Page
Slide 26




                               Standard Forms
                                   Part 3




                                                                Improving the Odds…

                          How to Prepare Government Contract Proposals




Part 3. Standard forms.




 Notes:
                                                                                      27
                                                                                      Page
Slide 27




                      A Closer Look at Key Standard Forms
                      Proposal Preparation

                                             Solicitation and Contract Forms
                       •   Standard Form 33, Solicitation, Offer and Award
                       •   Standard Form 1449, Solicitation / Contract / Order for Commercial Items*
                       •   Standard Form 1447, Solicitation / Contract*
                       •   Standard Form 18, Request for Quotation*
                       •   Standard Form 26, Award / Contract

                               * Typically used when simplified acquisition procedures apply



                                                                                     Improving the Odds…

                                               How to Prepare Government Contract Proposals




To remove some of the confusion surrounding required forms, let’s take a closer look at the
specific government Standard Forms and when they are used.




 Notes:
                                                                                                           28
                                                                                                           Page
Slide 28




                       Standard Form 33 – Solicitation, Offer and Award
                       Proposal Preparation – Contract Forms

                        •   Standard Form 33, Solicitation, Offer and Award is the solicitation/contract
                            form used by the federal government, not only to solicit orders, but also to
                            award a contract
                        •   Bilateral document – bidder signs the document and submits it to the
                            government -- upon acceptance of the bid, the government signs the
                            same document and a binding contract is established
                        •   This form is used for either sealed bids or negotiated contracts valued at
                            $150,000 or more

                                                           View the Form
                                                               SF 33

                                                                                        Improving the Odds…

                                                 How to Prepare Government Contract Proposals




Standard Form 33, Solicitation, Offer and Award is the solicitation/contract form used by the
federal government, not only to solicit orders, but also to award a contract.

It is a bilateral document, such that the bidder signs the document and submits it to the
government. Then, upon acceptance of the bid, the government signs the same document and
a binding contract is established.

This form is used for either sealed bids or negotiated contracts valued at $150,000 or more.




                                                                                                              29
                                                                                                              Page
Slide 29




                      Standard Form 1449 - Solicitation/Contract/Order
                      Proposal Preparation - Contract Forms

                       •   Except in circumstances where an electronic solicitation is used, Standard
                           Form 1449, Solicitation/Contract/Order for Commercial Items is the form
                           used by the government to buy commercial items that are estimated to
                           have a value under the simplified acquisition threshold



                                                          View the Form
                                                             SF 1449




                                                                                       Improving the Odds…

                                                How to Prepare Government Contract Proposals




Except in circumstances where an electronic solicitation is used, Standard Form 1449,
Solicitation/Contract/Order for Commercial Items is the form used by the government to buy
commercial items that are estimated to have a value of less than $150,000 and simplified
acquisition procedures will be applied.




 Notes:                                                                                                      30
                                                                                                             Page
Slide 30




                      Standard Form 1447 – Solicitation / Contract
                      Proposal Preparation – Contract Forms

                       •   Standard Form 1447, Solicitation/Contract is used in connection with
                           negotiated acquisitions when simplified acquisition procedures will apply
                       •   May be used in lieu of Standard Form 26 or Standard Form 33




                                                          View the Form
                                                             SF 1447




                                                                                      Improving the Odds…

                                                How to Prepare Government Contract Proposals




Standard Form 1447, Solicitation/Contract is used in connection with negotiated acquisitions
when simplified acquisition procedures will apply. It may also be used in lieu of Standard Form
26 or Standard Form 33.




                                                                                                            31
                                                                                                            Page
Slide 31




                       Standard Form 18 – Request for Quotation
                       Proposal Preparation – Contract Forms

                        •   Standard Form 18, Request for Quotation is the form used by the
                            government to obtain information and quotations, but the responses are
                            not considered offers
                        •   Typically used when simplified acquisition procedures will apply
                        •   May also be used for quotation requests that have an estimated value
                            above $150,000
                        •   Standard Form 26 is sometimes used to award a contract resulting from
                            the use of Standard Form 18

                                                          View the Form
                                                              SF 18


                                                                                     Improving the Odds…

                                               How to Prepare Government Contract Proposals




Standard Form 18, Request for Quotation is the form used by the government – when
quotations are not solicited electronically -- to obtain information and quotations, but the
responses are not considered offers. An RFQ package is typically used when the estimated
contract value is less than $150,000 and simplified acquisition procedures will be applied.
Importantly, an RFQ may also be used for quotation requests that have an estimated value
above $150,000.

Standard Form 26 is sometimes used to award a contract resulting from the use of Standard
Form 18.




 Notes:
                                                                                                           32
                                                                                                           Page
Slide 32




                       Standard Form 26 – Award /Contract
                       Proposal Preparation – Contract Forms

                        •   Standard Form 26, Award/Contract is the form used by the federal
                            government to award a contract, usually as a result of a Request for
                            Quotation
                        •   Similar to SF 33, although it requires additional certification information



                                                            View the Form
                                                                SF 26




                                                                                          Improving the Odds…

                                                  How to Prepare Government Contract Proposals




Standard Form 26, Award/Contract is the form used by the federal government to award a
contract, usually as a result of a Request for Quotation

In general, this form is similar to Standard Form 33, although it requires additional certification
information.




                                                                                                                33
                                                                                                                Page
Slide 33




                                     How to Write the Proposal
                                              Part 4




                                                                           Improving the Odds…

                                     How to Prepare Government Contract Proposals




Part 4. How to write the proposal.




 Notes:                                                                                          34
                                                                                                 Page
Slide 34




                       How to (actually) Write the Proposal
                       Proposal Preparation

                        •   Do your homework --- carefully read and reread the solicitation document
                            to clearly understand what is being asked, including clauses and provisions
                        •   If you are not sure about something --- ask questions
                        •   Respond appropriately
                        •   Align your proposal with the government’s needs
                        •   Articulate what makes you the best solution provider




                                                                                        Improving the Odds…

                                                 How to Prepare Government Contract Proposals




Just thinking about responding to a government RFP or solicitation can be stressful. Writing the
proposal, well that can make you even more anxious.

It doesn’t have to be that way. Preparing a response to a government procurement request or
invitation is an important task, not necessarily a daunting one. It should be approached with
diligence and professionalism.

Writing a successful proposal is about doing your homework, preparing and responding clearly
and appropriately, aligning your proposal with the government’s needs and articulating what
makes you the best solution provider. These elements are critical to successful proposal writing.



                                                                                                              35
                                                                                                              Page
Slide 35




                       Carefully Review the Solicitation and Rules
                       Proposal Preparation – How to Write the Proposal

                        •   Preparation is key – you must be prepared…
                        •   Carefully review the solicitation, including all applicable schedules,
                            clauses, and attachments
                        •   Review and understand the regulations (FAR Parts) governing the specific
                            type of solicitation you plan to respond to

                                                      Key Regulatory References
                                              FAR Part 13 – Simplified Acquisition Procedures
                                              FAR Part 14 – Sealed Bids
                                              FAR Part 15 – Contracts by Negotiation
                                              FAR Part 16 – Types of Contracts

                                                            Access the FAR
                                                                                                Improving the Odds…

                                                 How to Prepare Government Contract Proposals




Preparation is key…

If you are going to respond to a government RFP or other type of procurement request, you
must be prepared, or you will likely just be wasting your time. The reality is, if you do not
comply with all requirements in the solicitation, your proposal may be deemed “non-
responsive.”

Carefully read the solicitation, including all applicable schedules, clauses and attachments. This
is important. The solicitation is designed to provide prospective bidders with all of the
information needed to write a successful proposal. The agency that prepared the solicitation
expects you to read and follow it carefully.

Also, make sure you review and understand the regulations (FAR Parts) governing the specific
type of solicitation you plan to respond to. Some of the regulatory references relevant to a
solicitation and the proposal process are highlighted in this slide. If possible, assemble a team
to review and prepare the proposal.

Keep in mind, these are only some references. Other regulatory or policy guidance may be
applicable to the specific procurement you are considering. Talk with a contracting officer, PTAC
or other counselor for more assistance. Some PTACs and SBDCs offer training on how to
                                                                                                                      36



prepare and submit proposals. Consider taking such training.
                                                                                                                      Page
Slide 36




                       Prepare and Respond Appropriately
                       Proposal Preparation – How to Write the Proposal

                        •   Responding appropriately follows from reading and understanding the
                            government’s request
                        •   Answer all questions, provide all information and follow all schedules in
                            the order, time-frame and structure requested
                        •   Business that does not comply with all requirements, may be determined
                            to be non-responsive
                        •   This is important




                                                                                       Improving the Odds…

                                                 How to Prepare Government Contract Proposals




Responding appropriately to a solicitation follows from reading and understanding the
government’s request. Solicitations are usually very specific and follow a uniform contract
format. It is important that you respond, as you are asked – answering all questions, providing
all information and following all schedules in the order, time-frame and structure requested.
Eliminate any guesswork by ensuring that each response is appropriately identified so the
reviewer can readily recognize the section of the RFP which is being addressed.

If a small business does not comply with all of the requirements in a solicitation, it may be
determined to be non-responsive.

This may sound like common sense and it is. But, you would be surprised to learn how many
proposals submitted to the government that are received after the due-date and that do not
respond to what was asked for, or requested. Responding appropriately is important!
                                                                                                             37
                                                                                                             Page
Slide 37




                       Align Proposal with the Government’s Needs
                       Proposal Preparation – How to Write the Proposal

                        •   Good proposal will clearly articulate how the bidder can solve the problem
                            or fill the need outlined by the government
                        •   Understanding the government’s request is important -- how your firm can
                            execute or deliver an appropriate solution is critical
                        •   A proposal may look good, but if it is not clearly aligned with fulfilling the
                            government’s needs, it will fall behind other more substantive, solution
                            focused proposals




                                                                                          Improving the Odds…

                                                  How to Prepare Government Contract Proposals




A good proposal will clearly articulate how the bidder can solve the problem or fill the need
outlined in the government’s solicitation. This again, follows from understanding the nature of
the procurement request.

Understanding the government’s needs is important. Even more important, however is how
your firm plans to execute or deliver an appropriate solution. It is, after all about convincing a
government review panel that your proposal solves a specific problem or need and is the best
fit.

A proposal may look good and read well, but if it is not clearly aligned with fulfilling the
government’s needs, it will likely fall behind other more substantive, solution focused proposals.

Don’t get caught up in telling a great story about your company, focusing too much on “we can
do the work.” What really matters is substantiating how you can do the specific work that is
needed.
                                                                                                                38
                                                                                                                Page
Slide 38




                       Articulate What Makes You the Best Solution
                       Proposal Preparation – How to Write the Proposal

                        •   Key is pulling it all together in a proposal package that clearly describes
                            why your company offers the best solution
                        •   No magic bullet – it comes down to doing a lot of things right
                        •   It’s about:
                             –   Understanding the solicitation and responding appropriately
                             –   Demonstrating how your firm can best fulfill the government’s needs
                             –   Offering pricing that is fair and competitive
                             –   Making sure your proposal is well-written and error free
                             –   Showing evidence of success through past performance
                             –   Interweaving an amazing story throughout all parts of the proposal that makes a
                                 compelling case for your firm as the best solution


                                                                                                     Improving the Odds…

                                                      How to Prepare Government Contract Proposals




A typical government solicitation requires the bidder to provide a great deal of information.
The key is pulling it all together in a proposal package that clearly describes why your company
offers the best solution and is the best fit to perform the work. Think capture management…….
There is no magic bullet. It comes down to doing a lot of things right.

It’s about: understanding the solicitation and responding appropriately; clearly demonstrating
how your firm can best fulfill the government’s need; offering pricing that is fair and
competitive; making sure your proposal is well-written and error free; showing evidence of
success through past performance; and finally, interweaving an amazing story throughout all
parts of the proposal, including the executive summary – that makes a compelling case for your
firm as the best solution.

It is also highly recommended that you have reviewers outside of the proposal writers to review
the draft and final product.                                                                                               39
                                                                                                                           Page
Slide 39




                       What to Avoid…
                       Proposal Preparation – How to Write the Proposal

                        •   Failure to fully understand the solicitation and governing regulations
                        •   Incomplete or late submission
                        •   Proposal is not specific and to the point
                        •   High on fluff and weak on substance
                        •   Failure to understand best value considerations
                        •   Unrealistic proposal pricing
                        •   Evaluation components are not sufficiently addressed in the proposal
                        •   Errors in the submission



                                                                                        Improving the Odds…

                                                 How to Prepare Government Contract Proposals




Sometimes learning from the mistakes of others provides the best lessons.

With regards to solid proposal preparation, some key things to avoid include: not fully
understanding the solicitation and governing regulations; submitting an incomplete or late
submission; not providing specificity or focus; highlighting too much fluff and not enough
substance, not understanding best value considerations; unrealistic pricing; failure to address
evaluation factors; and errors in the submission.

If you aren’t selected for a contract, consider asking for a debriefing to learn where you may
have gone wrong and what you can do to improve your future proposals. Done in a professional
manner, this can be a way to show contracting staff of your willingness to improve and to be
more responsive to the government’s needs.

                                                                                                              40
                                                                                                              Page
Slide 40




                                 Costs and Pricing
                                      Part 5




                                                                   Improving the Odds…

                             How to Prepare Government Contract Proposals




Part 5. Costs and pricing.




 Notes:
                                                                                         41
                                                                                         Page
Slide 41




                       Introduction to Contract Pricing
                       Proposal Preparation – Costs & Pricing

                        •   Contract pricing is an important aspect of procurement and an important
                            component in developing a strategy to win federal contracts
                        •   COs are responsible for ensuring that agencies purchase supplies and
                            services from responsible sources at fair and reasonable prices
                        •   Firm is responsible for developing a contract pricing strategy that is
                            reasonable, competitive, but profitable




                                                                                      Improving the Odds…

                                                How to Prepare Government Contract Proposals




Contract pricing is an important aspect of procurement and a particularly important component
in developing a strategy to win federal contracts. There are two sides to this issue.

First the government’s perspective. Federal contracting officers are responsible for ensuring
that government agencies purchase supplies and services from responsible sources at fair and
reasonable prices. As such and to accomplish this, most contracting officers and agency buyers
conduct considerable market research to better understand markets and pricing.

A contractor will likely have a related, but different perspective. A small firm wanting to do
business with the government is responsible for developing a contract pricing strategy that is
reasonable, competitive, but profitable. The typical contract bidder wants to make as much as
possible in profit, but at the same time be competitive and win the bid.

As such, with contracting officers doing considerable market research and a high number of
firms competing for federal contracts, pricing is an important variable. A variable that can make
or break your success in federal contract markets. A business must be aware of historical and
current pricing trends, be thoughtful in its pricing analysis, competitive and able to make a
profit --- if it wants to succeed in the federal contract space.
                                                                                                            42
                                                                                                            Page
Slide 42




                      Negotiated Contracts vs. Sealed Bid Contracts
                      Proposal Preparation – Costs & Pricing

                       •   Two key types of contracts
                       •   Any contract awarded using other than sealed bidding procedures is
                           considered a negotiated contract
                       •    Procedures for contracting by negotiation permit negotiations prior to
                           contract award, but may or may not include negotiated discussions
                       •   Pricing a proposal will likely be influenced by your ability to negotiate or
                           not negotiate


                               FAR Part 14.000                                        FAR Part 15.000
                                Sealed Bidding                                       Negotiated Contracts

                                                                                            Improving the Odds…

                                                 How to Prepare Government Contract Proposals




As discussed in the earlier section, proposal preparation, there are two fundamental contract
categories: negotiated contracts and sealed bid contracts. The distinction between the two is
important.

The FAR states that any contract awarded using other than sealed bidding procedures is
considered a negotiated contract. Procedures for contracting by sealed bidding require the
government to evaluate bids without discussions and award to the responsible bidder whose
bid, conforming to the invitation for bids, will be most advantageous to the government
considering only price and price related factors. Negotiations are not permitted prior to the
contract award.

Procedures for contracting by negotiation permit negotiations prior to contract award. However,
a solicitation under procedures for contracting by negotiation may or may not actually include
negotiations. For example, the instructions to offerors may include the provision, the
“Government intends to evaluate proposals and award without discussions." When that
provision is used, actual negotiations are not permitted unless the contracting officer
determines in writing that they are necessary.

The pricing you propose in response to a government solicitation will be influenced by your
ability to negotiate or not negotiate.
                                                                                                                  43
                                                                                                                  Page
Slide 43




                       Regulatory Guidance
                       Proposal Preparation – Costs & Pricing

                        •   FAR Part 15 – Negotiated Contracts
                             –   15.101     Best value continuum
                             –   15.4       Contract pricing
                             –   15403      Obtaining cost or pricing data
                             –   15.405     Price negotiation
                             –   15.407     Special cost or pricing data
                        •   FAR Part 14 – Sealed Bid Contracts                             Access the FAR
                             –   14.201-8   Price related factors
                             –   14.3       Submission of bids
                             –   14.408     Award
                             –   14.408-2   Responsible bidder – Reasonableness of price
                        •   FAR Part 13 – Simplified Acquisition Procedures
                                                                                               Improving the Odds…

                                                    How to Prepare Government Contract Proposals




How you analyze your costs and price your proposal is primarily up to you, as long as you follow
applicable government rules and guidelines.

Federal rules for negotiated and sealed bid contracts and contracts that follow simplified
acquisition procedures are outlined in FAR parts, 15, 14 and 13, respectively. Also, highlighted
in the slide are FAR subparts that are pricing related.

It is important to note, in addition to FAR guidance, other agency pricing guidelines or policies
may also apply for specific contracts.




                                                                                                                     44
                                                                                                                     Page
Slide 44




                        Pricing Approach
                        Proposal Preparation – Costs & Pricing

                         •   Product Pricing (typical formula)
                              – Material Costs + Labor Costs + Overhead Expenses + Profit
                         •   Service Pricing (typical formula)
                              – Hourly Overhead Expense + Hourly Wage + Profit




                                                                                            Improving the Odds…

                                                   How to Prepare Government Contract Proposals




The pricing approach used by bidders for products and services being procured, besides
following specific contract rules, is pretty typical, but unique to the business doing the pricing.
That is, individual business costs and other considerations are factored into pricing formulas
that are typical or generally used.

For instance, with regards to product pricing, a firm would typically consider and add material
costs, plus labor costs, plus estimated overhead expenses, plus a profit margin to arrive at a
price it would propose or charge for the product being delivered.

Regarding the pricing of a service, a firm would typically consider and add estimated hourly
overhead expenses, plus hourly wages, plus a profit margin to arrive at a price it would propose
or charge. This type of pricing will require becoming aware of Department of Labor wage rate
agreements.

It is important to point out, that some government solicitations and contracts are very unique
regarding costs and pricing and specific cost and pricing requirements may apply. Carefully
review all government requirements.
                                                                                                                  45
                                                                                                                  Page
Slide 45




                       “Best Value” / Lowest Price Technically Acceptable
                       Proposal Preparation – Costs & Pricing

                        •   Best value procurement
                             – process used to select the most advantageous offer by evaluating and
                               comparing factors in addition to cost or price
                             – allows the contracting officer flexibility in selecting the contractor who will
                               give the government the best value for its money
                        •   Lowest price technically acceptable procurement
                             – process that is appropriate when best value is expected to result from the
                               selection of a technically acceptable proposal with the lowest evaluated price




                                                                                                 Improving the Odds…

                                                    How to Prepare Government Contract Proposals




It is also important to highlight the difference between “best value” procurements and lowest
price, technically acceptable procurements.

“Best Value” is a process used to select the most advantageous offer by evaluating and
comparing factors in addition to cost or price. It allows the contracting officer flexibility in
selection through tradeoffs which the agency makes between the cost and non-cost evaluation
factors with the intent of making an award to the contractor -- who will give the government
the best value for its money.

Regarding lowest price technically acceptable, this is a procurement process that is appropriate
when best value is expected to result from the selection of a technically acceptable proposal
with the lowest evaluated price. In other word, the contract award will be made on the basis of
the lowest evaluated price of proposals meeting or exceeding the acceptability standards for
non-cost factors.                                                                                                      46
                                                                                                                       Page
Slide 46




                       Important Pricing Considerations
                       Proposal Preparation – Costs & Pricing

                        •   Learn from past contracts -- review pricing history
                        •   Consider all costs -- even special requirements
                        •   Factor best value considerations
                        •   Include bidding costs
                        •   Allow for overhead and profit




                                                                                       Improving the Odds…

                                                 How to Prepare Government Contract Proposals




Contract pricing is a critical component in developing a strategy to win federal contracts. A
successful pricing strategy will: learn from past contracts; consider all costs -- even special
requirements; factor best value considerations; include bidding costs; and, importantly allow for
sufficient overhead expenses and profit.




 Notes:                                                                                                      47
                                                                                                             Page
Slide 47




                                        Relationships and the
                                         Wisdom of Others
                                                Part 6




                                                                            Improving the Odds…

                                      How to Prepare Government Contract Proposals




Part 6. Relationships and the wisdom of others.




 Notes:
                                                                                                  48
                                                                                                  Page
Slide 48




                      Network – Learn from the Wisdom of Others
                      Proposal Preparation – Relationships & the Wisdom of Others

                       •   A firm can waste a lot of time and expend unnecessary resources if it
                           doesn’t understand how to play in the federal contracting arena
                       •   Knowledge is everything
                       •   Network and cultivate relationships with people experienced in the
                           contracting space




                                                                                       Improving the Odds…

                                                How to Prepare Government Contract Proposals




If there is one message that is consistent throughout this presentation, it is knowledge is
everything. You don’t know what you don’t know. A business can waste a lot of time and
expend unnecessary resources if it doesn’t understand how to play in the federal contracting
arena.

Learn from the wisdom of others. Others, who have seasoned knowledge and experience in
federal contracting. Network, ask questions and cultivate relationships.

Engage knowledgeable people who can help guide you through the challenging aspects of
responding to procurement solicitations and trying to win federal contracts.



                                                                                                             49
                                                                                                             Page
Slide 49




                       Building Relationships is Good Business
                       Proposal Preparation – Relationships & the Wisdom of Others

                        •   Successful business people generally have a carefully developed and
                            cultivated portfolio of relationships
                        •   Building relationships is good business
                             – Network - Learn from the wisdom of others




                                                                                       Improving the Odds…

                                                 How to Prepare Government Contract Proposals




Truly successful business people don’t necessarily have a mountain of contacts whose names
they barely know and who are listed in some electronic file. Rather, they have a carefully
developed and cultivated portfolio of relationships.

Building solid relationships of experienced contracting professionals is good business.




                                                                                                             50
                                                                                                             Page
Slide 50




                                    Resources and Assistance
                                             Part 7




                                                                          Improving the Odds…

                                    How to Prepare Government Contract Proposals




Part 7. Resources and assistance.




 Notes:
                                                                                                51
                                                                                                Page
Slide 51




                      Resources and Tools
                      Proposal Preparation - Resources and Assistance

                        •   Federal Acquisition Regulations
                             –   http://www.acquisition.gov/far or http://farsite.hill.af.mil (searchable)
                        •   Acquisition Central
                             –   http://www.acquisition.gov/
                        •   FAR Part 19 – Small Business Programs
                             –   http//www.acquisition.gov/far – includes all parts
                        •   Code of Federal Regulations (13CFR)
                             –   http://www.gpoaccess.gov/cfr/index.html
                        •   Federal Business Opportunities
                             –   http://www.fbo.gov
                        •   SBA-Government Contracting
                             –   http://www.sba.gov/aboutsba/sbaprograms/gc/index.html


                                                                                                             Improving the Odds…

                                                        How to Prepare Government Contract Proposals




Numerous resources are available to assist individuals who are interested in learning more
about and participating in government contracting.




                                                                                                                                   52
                                                                                                                                   Page
Slide 52




                     Resources and Tools
                     Proposal Preparation - Resources and Assistance

                       •   Learn more about:
                            –   SAM Registration
                            –   SBA Size Standards
                            –   8(a) Business Development Program
                            –   WOSB Program
                            –   HUB Zone Program
                       •   Local (client) resources:
                            –   SBA district office
                            –   Procurement Technical Assistance Center (PTAC)
                            –   Government Contracting Classroom (free online courses)
                            –   SCORE chapter
                            –   Small Business Development Center
                                  •   SBA/SBDC Program Office
                            –   Women’s Business Center
                                  •   SBA/WBC Program
                                                                                                 Improving the Odds…

                                                           How to Prepare Government Contract Proposals




Use these resources to become better informed and improve your chances of preparing
proposals that win government contracts.




 Notes:
                                                                                                                       53
                                                                                                                       Page
Slide 53




                                      Reflection and Application
                                                Part 8




                                                                            Improving the Odds…

                                      How to Prepare Government Contract Proposals




Part 8. Reflection and application.




 Notes:
                                                                                                  54
                                                                                                  Page
Slide 54




                       Application
                       Proposal Preparation – Reflection & Application

                        •   Review , compare and update your small business profile
                        •   Find and study sample RFPs, RFQs and other solicitations
                        •   Chart your competitive position and pricing framework
                        •   Identify potential government customers and needs you can fill
                        •   Select a solicitation you are qualified for and prepare a draft proposal
                        •   Seek, listen, reflect and act on experienced guidance
                        •   You will know when you are ready…




                                                                                          Improving the Odds…

                                                  How to Prepare Government Contract Proposals




Ok, so we have covered a lot of ground and much information has been shared. There is
however, a big difference between learning something and doing something with which you
have learned. So…, consider this concluding message a push to apply what you have learned.
Take these constructive actions:
• Review, compare and update your small business profile in SAM, the DSBS and your
    qualifications statement. Then discuss and appropriately refine under the guidance of
    contract professionals.
• Find and study sample RFPs, RFQs and other solicitations in the FBO. Practice responding to
    these requests.
• Chart your competitive position and pricing framework.
• Identify potential government customers and specific needs you can fill.
• Still in a practice mode, select a government solicitation you feel you are qualified for and
    carefully review all aspects of the request. Go through all steps in the solicitation process
    and craft a compelling case as to why your firm offers the best solution. Review and discuss
    your draft proposal with experienced contracting professionals.
• Continue to seek, listen, absorb, reflect and act on the guidance from experienced
    contracting professionals.
• You will know when you are ready to formally submit your first proposal to the government.

And finally, if you do not win a contract after submitting a proposal, try to learn from the
                                                                                                                55



   experience. Sometimes debriefings can be an
excellent learning tool for developing future proposals.
                                                                                                                Page
Slide 55




                      In Summary…
                      Proposal Preparation

                        •   Presentation is about improving the odds
                        •   Thank you for taking the time to learn about proposal preparation
                        •   Please contact us with any questions you may have

                                             U.S. Small Business Administration
                                Office of Government Contracting and Business Development
                                                       800 U-ASK SBA

                                                         GC Classroom
                                                         www.sba.gov/gcclassroom




                                                                                      Improving the Odds…

                                                How to Prepare Government Contract Proposals




In summary, this presentation is about improving the odds. It’s about understanding
government contract solicitations and responding appropriately. It’s about building an amazing
story that touches all components of a contract proposal – such that a compelling case is made
for a firm -- your firm -- to be the best solution.

Thank you for taking the time to learn about government contracting and proposal preparation.
Please contact us with any additional questions you may have. Also, consider viewing other
training modules in SBA’s online Government Contracting Classroom.

Thank you.



 Notes:                                                                                                     56
                                                                                                            Page
                   Hyperlinks Contained in the Workbook
GC Classroom www.sba.gov/gcclassroom

North American Industry Classification System http://www.census.gov/eos/www/naics/

Federal Supply Group and Class http://www.dlis.dla.mil/hcfsch21.asp

SAM www.sam.gov

Federal Business Opportunities www.fbo.gov

SUB-Net http://web.sba.gov/subnet/search/index.cfm

Subcontracting Opportunities Directory http://www.sba.gov/subcontracting-directory

GSA Schedules http://www.gsa.gov/portal/content/197989

GWACS http://www.gsa.gov/portal/content/104874

Local PTAC http://www.dla.mil/SmallBusiness/Pages/ptac.aspx

Standard Forms SF 33, SF 1449, SF 1447, SF 18, SF 26 http://www.gsa.gov/portal/forms/type/SF

GLS Registration https://eweb.sba.gov/gls/dsp_addcustomer.cfm?imappsystypnm=8ASDB

Access the FAR http://acquisition.gov/far/index.html?menu_id=40

Code of Federal Regulation (13CFR)
http://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/browse/collectionCfr.action?collectionCode=CFR

SBA Government Contracting http://www.sba.gov/about-offices-content/1/2986

Procurement Technical Assistance Centers http://www.aptac-us.org/new/Govt_Contracting/find.php

Personal Financial Statement http://www.sba.gov/sites/default/files/tools_sbf_finasst413.pdf

SBA Size Standards http://www.sba.gov/content/am-i-small-business-concern

Women’s Business Centers http://www.sba.gov/content/womens-business-centers

SCORE http://www.score.org/chapters-map

WOSB Information www.sba.gov/wosb

Office of Women’s Business Ownership http://www.sba.gov/about-offices-content/1/2895
                                                                                                 57



Small Business Development Centers http://www.asbdc-us.org/
                                                                                                 Page
SBA District Offices http://www.sba.gov/about-offices-list/2




GCBD|joconnor|February|2014




                                                               58
                                                               Page
