                             REQUEST FOR PROPOSALS (RFP)
                             For Information Technology Services
                Juniata Valley Behavioral and Developmental Services (JVBDS)
                       Serving Huntingdon, Mifflin, and Juniata Counties

1. Introduction of Project Need:
JVBDS invites qualified providers to submit a proposal and statement of qualifications for
professional information technology services for the period of September 1, 2018 through June
30, 2019 with an optional yearly extension if agreed by both JVBDS and selected agency. The
qualified vendor will enable JVBDS to significantly improve information technology (IT)
effectiveness, enhance its quality of services, minimize its support cost, and maximize return on
investment in IT.

2. Purpose and Objectives:
Purpose – JVBDS has a variety of programs it is currently using. It is seeking a business partner
with knowledge of the HSS system, various government reporting systems as well as basic
business programs such as Excel, Outlook, and Windows. JVBDS may also look to the
successful firm for special projects and services such as installation of software, staff
troubleshooting, short and long term IT planning, secure systems issues, and disaster recovery.

Objective – Our primary objective is to better help manage the cost of maintaining the network,
while also improving end user satisfaction with the system.

3. Scope:
Current technology insfrastructure serves one building. Inventory is attached and includes,
hardware, specialized software, servers and software, security, network printers. All of these
items must be maintained.

The following services shall be provided:
    24x7 monitoring of servers and critical network components
    24x7 response to critical servers and infrastructure failures
    24x7 monitoring of firewall and denoted devices
    Server and Network administration
    Management of Microsoft service packs and security patches
    Management of server backup system
    User administration
    Regular inspection of Network and File Server
    Regular/periodic cleaning and testing of backups by restore of test files
    Firewall Administration
    Provide support for new/replaced servers
    Provide labor and support for migration of network operating systems/files
    Provide labor for server support
    quarterly reports of network health and vitality
    Web access to reports on current status of service calls and projects
    Spy‐ware monitoring, removal and cleaning
      Server down emergencies shall have a 24 hour or less response time
      Research for software and hardware solutions
      Provide as needed, research of technology needs for future growth
      Other issues as identified and discussed by successful applicant and JVBDS



4. Invoicing Procedures:
JVBDS requests that invoicing occur upon actual receipt of services. Vendors are advised that it
could take up to thirty (30 days) to process invoices for payment.

5. Pricing:
a. Prices shall be submitted on the attached Financial Proposal Form.
b. All prices offered herein shall be firm against any increase for the first nine (9) months from
the effective date of the proposed contract. Any contract price revisions shall be based on
industry price changes and supported by adequate detail to document same.
c. Price revisions shall not be allowed or implemented without the prior consent of JVBDS
Administrator.

6. Contract Terms:
Upon the mutual agreement of the provider and JVBDS, the award may be extended for
subsequent years.

7. Proposal Requirements:
The following information shall be required in the RFP submittal:
1. Letter of Transmittal – The letter is not intended to be a summary of the proposal itself and
must contain the following statements and information:
a. Company name, address, and telephone number(s) of the firm submitting the proposal.
b. Name, title, address, e‐mail address, and telephone number of the person or persons to contact
who are authorized to represent the firm and to whom correspondence should be directed.
c. Federal and state taxpayer identification numbers of the firm.
d. Briefly state your understanding of the services to be performed and make a positive
commitment to provide the services as specified.
e. Statement which indicated “proposal and cost schedule shall be valid and binding for ninety
(90) days following proposal due date and will become part of the contract that is negotiated with
JVBDS.”
f. The letter must be signed by a corporate officer or other individual who is legally authorized to
bind the applicant to both its proposal and cost schedule.
g. General Vendor Information – Please provide the following information:
i. Length of time in business
ii. Length of time in business of providing proposed services
iii. Total number of clients
iv. Total number of public sector clients
v. Number of full‐time personnel in:
vi. Consulting
vii. Installation and training
viii. Sales, marketing and administrative support
ix. Location of headquarters and any field offices
x. Location of office which would service this account
2. Describe how your firm is positioned to provide the services listed above and provide a history
of experience on providing similar services.
3. Describe your approach to providing these services and your methodology for providing
ongoing support.
4. Staff Resources – Identify names of principals and key personnel who will actually provide
the information technology services. Summarize the experience and technological expertise of
these staff. Describe the role and responsibilities that each of these individuals will have. The
local availability of staff that will be providing these services shall be an important
consideration.

Beyond the scope of this RFP, what services (related or otherwise) does your organization
provide that may be of interest to JVBDS?
7. Proposal Summary – Summarize your proposal and your firm’s qualifications. Additionally
you may articulate why your firm is pursuing this work and how it is uniquely qualified to
perform it. Include other pertinent information that helps the City determine your overall
qualifications. Your proposal summary is not to exceed 5 pages.
8. EVALUATION CRITERIA AND METHOD OF AWARD:
It is the intent of JVBDS to conduct a comprehensive, fair and impartial evaluation of proposals
received. Award shall be made to the provider that is believed by staff to be the best fit for the
organization. JVBDS reserves the right to reject any and all proposals for any reason or no
reason. Final selection will be based on a combination of relevant experience, available qualified
staff, schedule of rates and ability to meet the needs. Final approval will be made by JVBDS
Administrator and Joinder Board.
9. TIMELINE FOR RFP PROCESS:
The timeline listed below is the estimation of time required to complete the RFP process. All
efforts shall be made to abide by this schedule but it may change due to different circumstances.
All proposals must be delivered JVBDS in a sealed envelope. This will not be a public bid
opening.
399 Green Avenue Extended, Lewistown, PA 17044
Advertise RFP Notification: Week ending July 13, 2018
Receive Proposals: August 3 at 2pm
Meet to review: Week ending August 10
Joinder Board Recommendation: August 20, 2018
Notice to Proceed: October 1, 2018
Contact
Allison Fisher afisher@mifflinco.org
INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY SERVICES FINANCIAL PROPOSAL FORM
Company Name: _________________________________________________________
Please provide pricing for the following      Hourly ½ Hour ¼ Hour    Block
services (Note: JVBDS will not pay for travel Rate   Rate   Rate      Purchase
time): Description                                                    Rate
On-site desktop support
On-site server, LAN and WAN support
On-site routine maintenance and system documentation


On-site server, LAN and WAN project planning and implementation


Off-site desktop support
Off-site server, LAN and WAN support
Off-site routine maintenance and system documentation


Off-site server, LAN and WAN project planning and implementation


General Consulting
