                                       REQUEST FOR PROPOSALS (RFP)
                                     For Information Technology Services




                                      Chicago Ridge School District 127.5
                                            Chicago Ridge, IL. 60453


1.0 Purpose
The purpose and intent of this Request for Proposal is to solicit Managed Information Technology (IT) Services
from a qualified Offeror and to establish a contract through negotiations for continuing development and
support of specific IT services for the Chicago Ridge School District, herein referred to as CRSD1275.


1.1 IT Management Services Sought
   NOC (24x7x365 monitoring, security, support and maintenance)

          Server alert monitoring
          Server repair
          Server OS service packs
          Server OS hotfixes
          Server BIOS updates as required
          Firewall and other denoted devices
          Security administration
          Wireless access point updating
          Wireless access point configurations as required
          Wireless access point monitoring
          Antivirus licensing
          Virus definition and prevention
          Microsoft patch management
          Event log monitoring as required
          Log file maintenance as required
          Drive space monitoring and remediation
          Installation and configuration of servers due to disaster
          Applications including, but not limited to:
               o Network operating systems
                                                        1
           o   Backup
           o   Major database and critical applications
           o   Support and troubleshooting of critical line of business applications
           o   Student information systems applications
   Helpdesk (Monday through Friday 30 minutes (7:30 a.m.) prior to school start and 30 minutes after
   the business office end (4:30 p.m.)

          Chromebook, workstation desktop, laptop and tablet support and maintenances
          User account administration
          File sharing permission administration
          Basic end user support
   Onsite Support (Monday through Friday Full-Time 7:00 a.m. – 3:30 p.m.)

          Chromebook, workstation desktop, laptop and tablet failure
          Hard drive failure
          Memory failure
          Power supply failure
          Keyboard and mouse failure
          Internet service provider management
          Router management
          Switch management
          Antivirus management
          Firewall management
          VPN management
          Outside printed management
          Outside vendor support
          Online asset management
          Online case management
          Automated desktop optimization and management
          Spyware and Adware removal
          VPN client management
          Antivirus software management
          Software patch management
          Mail and anti-spam support
2.0 BACKGROUND
   Chicago Ridge School District 127.5 is a small suburban school district with approximately 200
employees and 1,500 students. The District operates a total of 3 instructional buildings made up of 2
elementary and 1 middle school facilities and 1 administrative facility.




                                                    2
      As a result of decentralized management philosophy, the expectation of producing higher levels of services
      in an environment with limited resources, the district foresees the necessity to maximize value.
      CRSD1275 seeks a technology management solution that will provide stable and reliable IT services to
      students and staff. The Offeror will be responsible for providing the resources necessary to provide these
      services at a high quality and efficient manner.
      3.0 CURRENT CRSD1275 IT ENVIRONMENT
         3.1     Architecture
                 The Offeror shall thoroughly understand the CRSD1275 IT environment and shall demonstrate
                 this knowledge in their Proposal; the Offeror shall be responsible for maintaining/upgrading as
                 well as improving the operational status of the CRSD1275 IT Architecture.
         3.2     Organic Support
                 CRSD1275 organic IT support consists of the Technology Services Facilitator. This position
                 currently oversees the operations of administrative IT services; contracted IT support staff and
                 Federal E-Rate Programs.
         3.3     Contractor Support
                 The bulk of CRSD1275 IT support will be contracted. The contracted staff will report to the
                 CRSD1275 Technical Services Facilitator.


4.0      SCOPE OF SERVICES
         4.1     Current Environment
     In order for prospective Offerors to size this contract properly, Table 4.1 provides an overview of the
number of locations and network devices supported by IT.

 CRSD1275 IT Profile Approximation                 Count
 Total number of location                          4
 Total number of Administration buildings          1
 Total number of instructional buildings           3
 Total number of students                          1,500
 Total number of employees                         219
 Total number of classrooms                        94
 Total number of network devices                   1,800
 Total number of Windows Servers                   4
 Total number of routers                           2
 Total number of switches                          25
 Total number of AP’s                              109
 Total number of network printers                  27
 Total number of network users                     1720
 Average monthly Helpdesk service tickets          373

                                                         3
4.2   Management Activities
      4.2.1 Managed Service Plan
            The Offeror shall describe the managed service approach and method(s) it plans to use
            to provide the support required in this RFP. After award, the Management Service Plan
            will become the Offeror’s base plan to fulfill the Contract. It will incorporate other plans
            required by this RFP.

                  Describe the Offeror’s proposed organization(s) and management structure,
                   graphically and by narrative, responsible for fulling the Contract requirements.
                   The Offeror must describe their reporting structure from the corporate level to
                   their CRSD1275 IT Services Facilitator.
                  Describe the methodologies, processes, and procedures the Offeror’s proposed
                   organization(s) will follow to provide the required support for Help Desk, NOC
                   and onsite support.
                  Describe the methodologies, process, and procedures, the Offeror will undertake
                   to adjust levels of operation should the scope of CRSD1275’s IT Architecture
                   change significantly.
                  Define the deliverable review process (e.g. Monthly Report, Contract Annual
                   Report, Status and Performance Report(s) and describe how communication and
                   review will be conducted between all parties.
                  Describe the Offeror’s methodology for developing and maintaining a schedule
                   for NOC, helpdesk and onsite services.
                  Describe the Offeror’s approach, if applicable, to effectively select and manage
                   its subcontractors. If subcontractor participation is proposed on this effort, the
                   Offeror must include a teaming agreement with all proposed contractors as part
                   of their Proposal.
                  Describe the Offeror’s approach to identifying potential problem areas, provide
                   recommended solutions to those problem areas, and any assumptions used in
                   developing solutions.
               The delivery requirements for the Management Plan are as follows:

                  The Offeror shall provide a Draft Management Plan with the submission of their
                   proposal.
                  The Offeror shall update the Draft Management Plan and deliver 60 days after
                   Contract start


                                              4
             The Offeror shall maintain the Management Plan for the duration of the Contract
              and provide page changes to CRSD1275 management for review and approval.
4.2.2 IT Support Services Contractor Transition
                The Offeror shall work in conjunction with CRSD1275 and the current incumbent
contractor to ensure the smooth transition of IT Support Services. The current incumbent
contractor is required to provide a smooth transition not to exceed 45 Calendar days. Describe
the Offeror’s approach to transition.
4.2.3 Monthly Reports
              The contractor shall submit a Monthly Report based on the agreed upon Services
              Level Agreements (SLA). The Monthly Report will be due no later than the 10 th
              day of every month.
              The Monthly Report may include, but not be limited to:

                 Planned projects
                 System performance summary
                 Fixed asset summary
                 Issues/concerns
4.2.4 CRSD1275 IT Architecture Support
              The Offeror shall update the CRSD1275 IT Architecture as new technology is
              implemented or removed.
              The Offeror shall, in collaboration with CRSD1275, provide a comprehensive
              reassessment and update document of the CRSD1275 IT Architecture, due to
              CRSD1275 no later than 60 days before the expiration of each Contract Year.
4.2.5 Operating Plan
              The Offeror shall provide an Operating Plan within the Management Plan. The
              Operating Plan will include a Personnel Profile Summary. Key personnel must be
              available immediately after the award of the contract. Key onsite personnel shall
              not be replaced and/or reassigned without CRSD1275 management review and
              approval. The Offeror shall identify in their proposal if the proposed key
              personnel are a current employee, a subcontractor, or a potential new hire.
              The plan shall contain the following information:

                 A Personnel Profile Summary, clearly defining skill sets, years of experience
                  and customer work references, along with a resume for each team member
                  proposed.
                 A contingency plan that shows the ability to add more staff if needed to meet
                  the Contract’s performance requirements.
                 A statement of the Offeror’s ability to be fully staffed for the Contract.

                                       5
                A statement of the Offeror’s ability to provide qualified replacement
                 personnel.
                A statement of the Offeror’s Professional Development Strategy for its staff
                 and its staff’s ability to remain at the leading edge of IT support services
                 relative to the K-12 education industry.
                A statement of ability to operate and meet all requirements within this RFP.
4.2.6 Non-disclosure Stipulation on CRSD1275 Confidential/Proprietary Data
             The Offeror shall take all precautions necessary and appropriate to ensure the
             confidentiality of CRSD1275 record information. The Offeror shall limit access to
             the CRSD1275 records only to its authorized representatives. Except as
             authorized by CRSD1275, the Offeror shall not reproduce any CRSD1275 records.
             CRSD1275 shall have the right to review the Offeror’s procedures for handling
             CRSD1275 records and may make such inspections, as it deems necessary to
             ensure that the contractor is safeguarding the CRSD1275 record information
             adequately.
4.2.7 Supervision/Time & Attendance Accounting
             In addition to the scope of work for the required support services, the Selected
             Offeror shall be required to abide by the following:

                Helpdesk operations can be both remote and onsite at CRSD1275 Central
                 Office when needed.
                Onsite individuals shall be required to work from CRSD1275 buildings, unless
                 another facility is mutually agreed upon.
                The Offeror shall submit monthly invoices, on the 10 th day of each month for
                 the service provided during the preceding month, to the CRSD1275 key
                 contact for their review and approval. The monthly invoices must identify
                 each service type and description of project work charges if applicable.
                 CRSD1275 will process the invoice and submit payment up to 30 days after
                 receipt.
                The Offeror shall be required to provide helpdesk (7:30 a.m. – 4:30 p.m.) and
                 onsite proposed services covering all working hours of CRSD1275 personnel
                 using IT (7:00 a.m. – 3:30 p.m.).
                The Offeror shall discuss in the proposal if support for CRSD1275 staff after
                 working after hours will be provided.
                The Offeror shall provide support, as required, for after normal working
                 hours at no additional cost to CRSD1275 for critical events. Examples of this
                 support include, but is not limited to:
                Network Outages
                Disaster Recovery
                Testing
                Cyber-Security

                                      6
                 Software Upgrades
                 End-Of-Year Processing
             In the event of unforeseen circumstances identified by CRSD1275, the Offeror
             shall provide CRSD1275, in writing, a formal plan when tasks require working
             after normal business hours. If overtime is ever required and approved by
             CRSD1275, the overtime rate will be at the normal billable hourly rate as
             depicted in the Offeror’s Cost Proposal.




4.2.8 Exit Plan
      90 days prior to the expiration of the Contract Period and/or immediately upon the
      termination of this Contract for any reason, the contractor shall perform the following:
      The Offeror shall establish a written plan and timeline (with milestones), acceptable to
      CRSD1275 Management, for the accomplishment of the Termination Assistance Services
      and orderly transition of the services, as described in this RFP, from the contractor (“Exit
      Plan”). The Exit Plan shall include but not be limited to:

                 Software Development Folders
                 Update CRSD1275 IT Architecture
                 Status of in-progress projects with all documentation
                 Training Classes and Documentation
                 Disaster Recovery Plan and Testing documentation
                 Process of collecting employee badges, keys, etc.
                 Location and description of all desktop images
                 Contents of IT documentation Library
                 Process to inactivate all contractor staff network access
                 Administrative passwords of all servers
                 Diagram and documentation of all communication systems
      The Offeror shall deliver the Exit Plan to CRSD1275 90 days prior to the expiration of the
      Contract Base Period or any of the option yours of the Contract, and/or immediately
      upon the termination of the Contract, as directed by CRSD1275. Immediately up
      expiration or termination of the Contract, the Offeror shall provide the Termination
      Assistance Services as listed in Paragraph 6.3 of this RFP.
4.3   District Wide IT Requirements
      The contractor shall provide district wide technical support to maintain/enhance the IT
      architecture, to deployed applications, both organic and cloud. The Offeror shall
      provide the support as listed in the Technical Support Requirements, Table 4.3, below.
      The Offeror shall also provide support to the unique requirements listed within the

                                        7
                     following paragraphs of this section. Support requirements shall include, but are not to
                     be limited to:

                                       Technical Support Requirements
        Enhancement of system performance
        Ensuring operational status
        Installation, implementation, and management of upgrades/updates
        Installation of new software
        Maintenance of user security and user profiles
        Ongoing enhancements of systems performance


                                Table 4.3 Technical Support Requirements
Ninety (90) days prior to the end of each year of the contract, CRSD1275 and the contractor shall review
support requirements to adjust current and add any new requirement based on CRSD1275 usage and need.
              4.3.1 Local Area Network/Wide Area Network/Virtual Local Area Network/Wi-Fi
              (LAN/WAN/VLAN/Wi-Fi) Connectivity
                     4.3.1.1 LAN/WAN/VLAN/Wi-Fi Administrator
                            The Offeror shall administer the various administrative and instructional (school)
                            LANs/VLANs and support their connectivity to the CRSD1275 WAN. Each site
                            contains VLANs for network administration, the CRSD1275 core network, site-
                            specific networks, wireless network, security. As a result of this configuration
                            network traffic can be more effectively managed, secured, and monitored.
                     Support shall include the requirements identified in the Technical Support Requirements
                     table above, as well as:

                                   Network backup and recovery
                                   Maintenance of user accounts
                                   Network configuration management
                     The Offeror shall support the connectivity of client desktop workstations and
                     peripherals (where applicable) to the LAN/WAN/VLAN. This support shall include
                     upgrade/installation of client connectivity software and the facilitation of warranty work
                     for covered hardware and break/fix service for non-warranty hardware, including
                     routers, switches, and network interface cards (NICs). The contractor shall also provide
                     to CRSD1275 recommendations as to whether it is more cost effective to service or
                     replace non-operation equipment. For the purchase of parts or equipment
                     replacement, the contractor shall submit a purchase request with recommendations to
                     CRSD1275 management for approval/execution.
                     LAN/WAN/VLAN requirements shall include but not be limited to the following areas.




                                                      8
      E-Mail Administration
      Network Design and Architecture
      Network Tuning
      Network Cabling
      Network Wireless Network Printing
Support requirements can be found in the following paragraphs.
4.3.1.2 Network Cabling
       The Offeror shall coordinate with CRSD1275 Facilities and Operations staff to
       provide maintenance for any CRSD1275 owned existing CAT – 5/6 and fiber optic
       cabling as well as their associated connections throughout the district.
4.3.1.3 Network Printer/Scanner
       The Offeror shall maintain and support network printer and scanner connections
       throughout the district and coordinate services with outsourced printer
       management company.
4.3.1.4 Internet Support
       The Offeror shall maintain district-wide connectivity to the Internet via the WAN
       in compliance with the terms and conditions of the CRSD1275 Internet
       Acceptable Use Policy.
4.3.2 Client Software Technical Support
       The Offeror shall provide technical/functional software support for the various
       client desktops, laptops, and tablets as well as standalone computer equipment
       and peripherals throughout the CRSD1275 Architecture.
Support Shall include technical support identified in Table 4.3, as well as:

      Operating system upgrades/maintenance
      Deployment of software on workstations (physical and/or remote management)
      Reimaging, if applicable
      Software configuration
      System configuration, if applicable
      Connectivity to CRSD1275 Local Area Network/Wide Area Network/Virtual Local
       Area Network (LAN/WAN/VLAN) and the Internet, if applicable.
      Maintaining/ensuring full capability of installed software
      Knowledge of the education process involved with the given applications. This
       will include provision of Helpdesk support for:
      The standard set of educational software packages approved by CRSD1275 and
       used by teaching staff and,
      The standard set of administrative software applications, approved by CRSD1275
       and used by administrative staff.

                                  9
4.3.3 Enterprise Data Management Support
The Offeror shall provide support to the current CRSD1275 Student Information
System(s) Teacherease (Common Goal Systems INC.). Teacherease system is a hosted
service designed to help teachers, administrators, and parents support student
achievement. Connectivity to Teacherease (Common Goal Systems INC.) network is
provided via LAN-to-LAN connection as well as potential future changes with CRSD1275
Student Information System(s).
4.3.4 SchoolMessenger Support
       The Offeror shall provide technical support to maintain the SchoolMessenger
       attendance/parent callback system as it is deployed at CRSD1275 buildings
       across the district.
4.3.5 Nwea Map Support
       The Offeror shall provide technical support to maintain and update student
       upload data as needed across the CRSD1275 buildings across the district.
4.3.6 PearsonAccessNext Illinois Assessment of Readiness (IAR) Support
       The Offeror shall provide technical support to maintain and update student
       upload data as needed across the CRSD1275 buildings across the district.
4.3.7 Illinois State Board of Education (ISBE IWAS) Student Data Support
       The Offeror shall provide technical support to maintain and update student
       upload data across the CRSD1275 buildings across the district as needed.
4.3.8 Instructional Software Technical Support
       The Offeror shall, throughout the term of the Contract, and at the direction of
       the CRSD1275 Facilitator, provide technical support for new or existing
       instructional software applications. This will include provision of Helpdesk
       support.
4.3.8.1 Administrative Software Technical Support
       The Offeror shall, throughout the term of the contract, and/or at the direction of
       CRSD1275 Facilitator, provide technical support for new or existing
       administrative software applications, including version upgrades/updates, to be
       used by administrative staff. This will include provision of Helpdesk support for
       the standard set of administrative software applications, approved by CRSD1275
       and used by administrative staff.
4.3.8.2 Technical Support of Government Mandated Non-Standard Support
       The Offeror, in collaboration with CRSD1275, shall evaluate mandates from state
       and federal agencies of any non-standard software application that is currently
       or may, in the future, be mandated by state or federal agencies to be used by
                                10
      departments within CRSD1275. The Offeror shall, in collaboration with
      CRSD1275, reallocate resources to support the implementation and operation of
      government mandated software.
4.3.9 Information Technology Helpdesk
      The Offeror shall establish and staff a Helpdesk from 7:30 a.m. – 4:30 p.m. and
      extend hours if negotiated. Helpdesk will be the first line of support for all IT
      issues across the district.
      The Helpdesk will be responsible for providing support to approximately 1720
      users (1,500 students and 219 Employees) across the full scope of the CRSD1275
      IT architecture, receiving an average of 373 service tickets per month. Helpdesk
      staff providing support must have extensive functional knowledge of the
      instructional and administrative applications utilized throughout the district.
      4.3.9.1 Helpdesk Support
      The helpdesk shall be responsible for receiving service tickets, gathering
      information on the end user issue. Helpdesk shall provide initial troubleshooting
      over the telephone, if applicable, before escalating to onsite field service
      support.
      Helpdesk staff shall be responsible for contacting end users who have placed
      service tickets without resolution.
      Helpdesk staff shall set up, remove, and manage user accounts in accordance to
      the CRSD1275 Acceptable Use Policy.
      4.3.9.2 Helpdesk Performance Requirements
      The Offeror shall provide resolution to Helpdesk tickets as per negotiated SLA, or
      provide disposition to CRSD1275 as to why timely resolution to the ticket(s)
      cannot be provided.
      4.3.9.3 Remote Management Technical Support
      The Help Desk shall maintain a database that logs all tickets, level of support
      required, response times, resolution times, type of issue reported, and
      resolution to the issue.
      The Offeror shall assemble critical Help Desk performance statistics and provide
      them to CRSD1275 in the Monthly Report. The Monthly Help Desk Performance
      statistics shall, at a minimum, include the following information:

             Total number of tickets opened and closed
             A breakout of tickets requiring support
             Minimum, maximum, and average response times
             Minimum, maximum, and average resolution times
             Types of issues reported
                               11
       Resolution to the issues
       A recommendation of better operability
The Offeror shall analyze the current CRSD1275 helpdesk structure, processes,
and methodologies and provide CRSD1275 with recommendations for
improvements.
4.3.10 Remote Management Technical Support
        The Offeror shall fully implement and utilize existing remote
        management systems by which troubleshooting and initial technical
        support can be executed remotely to reduce response and resolution
        time.
4.3.11 System Security
        4.3.11.1 Automated Backup
        The Offeror shall develop and implement policies and procedures to
        automate the routine backup of all servers across the district. The
        Offeror shall fully implement existing automatic backup systems by which
        server backups can be executed with minimal user intervention.


        4.3.11.2 Backup/Disaster Recovery
        The Offeror shall develop a CRSD1275 Disaster Recovery Plan and provide
        Backup/Disaster Recovery Technical support ensuring the timely recovery
        of CRSD1275 Mission Critical Systems (as determined by CRSD1275) and
        their data, including annual testing of backup/disaster recovery systems
        and procedures to ensure operational status.
        The Offeror shall deliver a Disaster Recovery Plan 180 days after contract
        start. This plan will be updated on an annual basis. Recommendations
        for disaster recovery services will be implemented 60 days after
        CRSD1275 approval, pending funding.
        4.3.11.3 Comprehensive Computer Virus Protection
        The offeror shall provide and maintain virus protection which at a
        minimum includes communications, servers, and clients.
        4.3.11.4 Data Security
        The Offeror shall ensure the security of CRSD1275 confidential and
        proprietary data through the administration of user accounts and
        passwords, allowing varying levels of access as directed by CRSD1275.
        The Offeror shall also protect CRSD1275 data and the network and


                         12
                                      architecture from external violations through the maintenance of a
                                      secure firewall at the CRSD1275 WAN’s connection to the Internet.
                4.4    Departmental Software Technical Support
                       The Offeror shall provide technical support, maintenance and facilitation of remediation
                       for business software applications.
                       The following table, departmental Technical Support Cross Reference, and the
                       paragraphs that follow detail the technical support required. Departmental Technical
                       Support Requirements, identifies technical support requirements to support the
                       Departmental requirements in this section. Support requirements shall include, but are
                       not to be limited to.



                                 Departmental Technical Support Requirements
 Ensure operational status
 Installation, implementation, and management of upgrades/updates
 Installation of new software
 Testing (e.g. unit/module, integration, system, regression)
 Troubleshooting


                           Table 4.4 Departmental Technical Support Requirements


       5.0      INSTRUCTIONS TO OFFERORS
                5.1    Technical Proposal
               The Technical Proposal shall concisely describe the Offeror’s approach to satisfying all of the
requirements of this contract as depicted in Section 4.0 Scope of Services and the following services. Any
Technical Proposal not fulfilling all requirements as defined in this RFP shall be excused from further
consideration.


Help Desk Services:
       A.    Provide a detailed description of your suggested Helpdesk solution software and features.
       B.    Provide a detailed description of the Helpdesk ticket lifecycle
       C.    Describe the SLA’s you will hold yourself accountable to and penalty if not met
       D.    Describe your remote management and monitoring (RMM) solution
       E.    Provide your average # of open tickets per technician
       F.    Provide your average # of people staffed at a remote help desk
       G.    Describe your ticket escalation and dispatch of onsite technician’s process
       H.    Provide an example of a monthly performance report
       I.    Describe your process of communication with external vendors and manufactures
                                                       13
       J. Describe additional services that would support your response
NOC Services:
       A.    Describe your process and plan for data backup and disaster recovery
       B.    What virus protection software would you utilize?
       C.    Describe how you will provide security for data and other sensitive materials
       D.    Describe your process for maintaining IT inventory
Online Support Services:
       A.    List manufacturer repair certifications
       B.    Provide a detailed description of your suggested onsite support structure
       C.    Provide an organizational chart of proposed onsite support staff
       D.    Describe what inventory system you will utilize
Describe knowledge and experience with the following programs/applications:
       A.    G Suite
       B.    Teacherease (Common Goal INC) SIS Systems
       C.    School Messenger
       D.    NWEA MAP
       E.    PEARSON IAR
       F.    DRC INSIGHT - WIDA Assessment Management Systems
       G.    Pearson Review 360


       6.0      TERMINIATION CLAUES
                6.1    Termination for Convenience:
                CRSD1275 may terminate the agreement, in whole or in part, whenever it is determined that
                such termination is in the best interest of the District, without showing cause, upon giving 90
                days written notice to the firm. CRSD1275 shall pay all reasonable cost incurred by the firm up
                to the date of termination. The firm shall not be reimbursed for any profits which may have
                been anticipate but which have not been earned up to the date of termination.
                6.2    Termination for Default:
                When the firm has not performed or has unsatisfactorily performed, the repairs CRSD1275 may
                terminate the agreement for default. Upon termination for default, payment may be withheld
                at all discretion of CRSD1275. Failure on the part of a firm to fulfill the agreement obligations
                shall be considered just cause for termination of the agreement. The firm will be paid for work
                satisfactorily performed prior to the termination less any excess costs incurred by the Chicago
                Ridge School Board of Education in procuring and completing the terms of the agreement. If at
                any time during the term of the agreement, the school district determines that the firm has not
                kept and observed the conditions of the agreement, and has not corrected the breach within


                                                        14
            five (5) working days following receipt of written notice, CRSD1275 shall have the right, in its
            sole discretion to terminate said agreement upon five (5) days additional written notice.
            6.3    Termination Assistance
            In the event of the expiration or termination of the Contract resulting from this RFP for any
            reason, the contract shall (1) cooperate with CRSD1275 in effecting the orderly transfer of the
            services to a third part or the resumption of the services by CRSD1275 (2) transfer, license, or
            obtain for CRSD1275, as appropriate, any tools and equipment used by the contractor in the
            provision of the services that are not use exclusively for CRSD1275’s account (tools and
            equipment used exclusively for CRSD1275’s account shall be owned by CRSD1275), and (3)
            continue to perform those services and deliverables requested by CRSD1275 in accordance with
            this Assistance Services to be provided in connection with the expiration of the Term, such
            services will be provided during the last 12 months of the Term during, and as part of, the
            performance of the services hereunder at no additional cost.
            Termination Assistance Services in all other events of termination shall be provided for up to
            180 days after the effective date of the termination. The allocation of costs associated with
            termination shall consist of only the labor hours specified as necessary per CRSD1275 for
            Termination Assistance, and there shall be no additional cost to CRSD1275 other than specified.
            Notwithstanding the reasons for any termination of this Contract, termination shall have no
            effect on the parties’ rights and obligations under: Ownership and Licensing, Confidentiality,
            and Limitation of Liability.




Please contact Gino Fricano at gfricano@crsd1275.org with any questions and interests in regards to the
                                RFP for information technology services.




                                                     15
