                            LEGAL NOTICE
                         TOWN OF HERMON
                     REQUEST FOR PROPOSALS (RFP)

Sealed Requests for Proposals are hereby requested on the following:

               Information Technology Needs Assessment

All in accordance with specifications on file with the Town Clerk, Hermon
Town Office, 333 Billings Road, Hermon, Maine 04401. The specifications
may be obtained from the Town Clerk during regular business hours on
weekdays (Monday-Friday) from 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. local time, or
online at https://www.hermon.net/bids-proposals-2/

Sealed proposals on the above must be filed and submitted in writing, to
the Town Clerk, Hermon Town Office, 333 Billings Road, Hermon, Maine
04401, no later than 4:00 p.m. local time on Thursday, December 5, 2019.
Proposals must be marked:

               Information Technology Needs Assessment

Proposals will be opened at Hermon Town Office, Council Chambers, at
4:00 p.m. (local time), on Thursday, December 5, 2019, and thereafter
considered by the Town Council of the Town of Hermon on Thursday,
December 12, 2019.


THE TOWN COUNCIL RESERVES THE RIGHT TO REJECT ALL PROPOSALS AND
TO WAIVE ANY INFORMALITY.

Dated: 28 October 2019

Kristen L. Cushman
Town Clerk
                RFP — Information Technology Needs Assessment



Bid Specifications

The Town of Hermon is requesting proposals from qualified professional
technology support vendors for an analysis of the town's (excluding School
Department) Information Technology infrastructure, equipment, software, and
operations. The qualified vendor would provide necessary input on all facets of
the operation including: Safety and security of the technology facilities; disaster
recovery and systems back up; Efficiency of the operations of data networks,
computer systems, and programs; Ways to maximize ROI of investment in
technology; and Training of users of technology components.

This assessment should take care to highlight overall strengths and weaknesses
of the Town of Hermon's Information Technology (excluding School Department)
infrastructure and operations, particularly with respect to any outside threat
possibilities of all computers, electronic devices, routers, firewalls, copiers as well
as any and all other hardware, software and computer programs at each and
every municipal building or structure or temporary office used to transact town
business.

The needs assessment of the winning bid is expected to include: complete and
thorough analysis, determinations and recommendations for the current
Information Technology infrastructure with a top ten action plan for the most
serious issues and priorities. The documentation of critical issues, concerns,
strengths, and weaknesses of the infrastructure, a time frame for resolution of
each of the top ten and if necessary a phased approach to the solution.
Analysis of the Town of Hermon's current computer/information
system(s)/computer network(s) and overall electronic infrastructure, including
other aspects of the infrastructure that, as expert(s) in the field, recognize the
need to be addressed regarding above said mentioned.

The bid must include an estimated time frame for completion of the needs
assessment.

The Town of Hermon reserves the right to reject any and all proposals for the
services requested herein. Selection of the winning bid will be determined on
the town's sole judgment as to who best meets the requirements outlined in this
request for proposal. Evaluation of the bids will include, but will not be limited to:
approach and methodology, experience, satisfaction of clients, and pricing.
The Town of Hermon is a municipal corporation subject to Freedom of
Information requests. Any information contained in the proposal which the
vendor deems confidential, proprietary or a trade secret must be specifically
identified. The vendor may be required to justify why the Town of Hermon should
not disclose such information or material if a proper request for disclosure is
received.

General Background Information

The Town of Hermon is located next to Bangor, Maine. The town encompasses
36.81 square miles and has approximately 5,865 residents (2016 Census).

Law enforcement and fire protection, highway, recreation, assessing, code
enforcement, administration and facilities, are provided for the area by the
Town under the supervision of the Town Council.

The town has approximately 20 full time employees. The school department is
separate from the Town and currently provides contracted IT services to the
Town.

The Town of Hermon primarily operates from the following facilities:

Town Office, 333 Billings Road
Public Safety Building, 333 Billings Road


The Town of Hermon utilizes the following software/programs:

TRIO
First Class (email)
HAVA (State of Maine)
DAVE (State of Maine)
INFORME (State of Maine)
IF & W (State of Maine)
Rapid Renewal (State of Maine)

MS Office — Word Processing/Spreadsheets/Publisher
Adobe


Please direct any questions to Kristen Cushman at 848-1010
Submission Requirements

All bid proposals must, at minimum, include the following:
Company name, address, telephone number and website;
Name, title email address and phone number of person authorized to represent
the vendor and who will be the direct contact;

A general description of the company/vendor;
Federal and State taxpayer identification numbers;

A detailed cost schedule for the work to be performed, including a description
of any fixed fee, a scheduled of hourly rates, a description of addition charges
and a description of how services will be billed;

A letter signed by a person authorized to bind the vendor proposal and cost
schedule with an acknowledgement that the proposal and cost schedule is
valid for ninety (90) days following the proposal due date;

A list of three clients for whom a similar assessment has been performed.

Preference will be given to companies with previous municipal clients; and
Five (5) copies of proposal.


Town Acceptance:

After the evaluation process the Town Council, by resolution, will award the
contract to the successful consultant or consultants. This resolution will
formerly accept the consultant's proposal subject to all the terms, condition
and representations of the proposal, the request for proposal on which the
proposal was prepared, and the same together will become the contract
for the parties.
