                                REQUEST FOR PROPOSALS
                         HOMELESS HOUSING AND SERVICES PROGRAM
                                   TABLE OF CONTENTS


I.       Introduction
II.      Scope of Service
III      Budget Appropriations
IV.      Timeline
V.       Definitions
VI.      Program Eligibility
VII. Proposer’s Responsibility
VIII. City’s Responsibility
IX.      Instructions to Proposers
X.       Proposal Contents
XI.      Proposal Format and Submission
XII. Proposal Evaluation and Selection
XIII. Homeless Housing and Services Program (HHSP) Requirements
XIV. Records Retention and Audit Requirements
XV. Monitoring Reviews
XVI. Information on Request for Proposals (RFP) Release


ATTACHMENTS (to be completed by City Staff)
         RFP Evaluation Sheet (Attachment A)
         RFP Responsiveness Checklist (Attachment B)


FORMS (to be completed by Proposer)
         Organization Information (Form 1)
         HHSP Budget (Form 2)




                            DUE BY 3:00 PM, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 12, 2018
      It is recommended that you submit your proposal prior to the deadline date. See Section XI,
            Proposal Format and Submission for details on the process to submit your proposal.
                                     City of Plano
                             Community Services Division
                     Homeless Housing and Services Program (HHSP)
                                Request for Proposals

I.           INTRODUCTION

Texas Government Code §2306.2585 allocates State general funds in the form of the Homeless
Housing and Services Program (HHSP) to any municipality with a population of 285,000 or
more. These funds are appropriated by the legislature using a formula allocation, annually.
HHSP funds are targeted for persons who are homeless or at-risk of homelessness.
Specifically, these funds may be used for construction, development or procurement of housing
for homeless persons; rehabilitation of structures targeted to serving homeless persons or
persons at-risk of homelessness; provision of direct services and case management to
homeless persons or persons at-risk of homelessness; or, other homelessness-related activity
as approved by TDHCA.The City of Plano (“the City”) is seeking proposals for the Homeless
Housing and Services Program (HHSP), (the “Program”), to provide a Rapid Re-housing
program for Plano’s homeless individuals and families.

The City of Plano has chosen to use the funds on Rapid Re-housing services for individuals and
households who are currently homeless and need assistance with obtaining permanent
housing. It is the City’s preference that the program is made available to all individuals who
qualify, instead of limiting the program to a specific homeless subpopulation.

HHSP funds are also to be used for case management to assist eligible persons with finding
suitable housing, interfacing with landlords, linking to community resources, developing a plan
to maintain permanent housing, and entry into the Homeless Management Information System
(HMIS). HHSP funds are to provide temporary assistance as a bridge to long-term stability.
Eligible program participants must be at or below 50 percent of Area Median Income (AMI).

II.          SCOPE OF SERVICE

The City is requesting proposals from non-profit agencies that have experience administering a
Rapid Re-housing program or providing services to persons who are homeless.

The proposal that is determined to be the most advantageous to the City, considering the
relative importance of price and evaluation criteria in accordance with the Proposal Contents
and Proposal Evaluation and Selection Criteria as set forth in Attachment A of this Competitive
Sealed Proposal (RFP), will be awarded. The contract period will be for ten (10) months, with a
starting date on or about November 1, 2018, and an ending date of August 31, 2019, or upon
completion of program services, whichever occurs first. All funds must be expended by the end
of the contract period. The funds may not be renewable beyond the contract period, depending
on priorities identified in future funding years. Program participants must be either 1) individuals
or families who are currently homeless in Plano, or 2) individuals or families who became
homeless while living in Plano.



Request for Proposals                                                                    Page 2 of 15
Homeless Housing and Services Program
City of Plano
REVISED 9.20.2018
III.         BUDGET APPROPRIATIONS

There is a total of $137,563 available. Eligible categories include financial assistance, HMIS,
and case management. Successful Proposer will be awarded HHSP funds that will provide
direct assistance to eligible program participants and funds to employ a case manager to
administer the delivery of service. Staff funded at 100% by HHSP are required to spend 100%
of their time on HHSP activities.

Successful Proposer may not charge fees to HHSP program participants.

Successful Proposer must not make payments directly to program participants, but only to third
parties, such as landlords or utility companies. An assisted property may not be owned by the
Successful Proposer or the parent subsidiary or affiliated organization of the Successful
Proposer. Additionally, non-arms-length transactions between property owners and tenants are
not eligible. This means that landlords/owners and Program Participants must act independently
and have no relation to one another. It is assumed that, with no personal interest in the
relationships between parties, the transaction will be fair and equitable to all parties.

IV.          TIMELINE


                                                     10/15/2018-
        9/11/2018       RFP Published                               Award Notification
                                                     10/19/2018

                                                     10/22/2018-    Contract Provided for
        9/20/2018       Informational Conference*
                                                     10/26/2018     Review and Finalization

                        Final Submittal of RFP
        10/5/2018       Questions & Final            11/1/2018      Program Start Date
                        Request for DropBox Link
                                                                    Contract Termination Date
                        Proposal Submission
        10/12/2018                                   8/31/2019      (last day to incur Program
                        Deadline (3:00 PM)
                                                                    expenses)

*The informational conference will take place Thursday, September 20 from 2:00-3:00 PM at the
City of Plano Neighborhood Services Department, 7501 Independence Pkwy, Plano, TX 75025,
Building A. You will see the sign for Maribelle Davis Library at the entrance to the parking lot.
RSVP to Natalie at nevans@plano.gov.

V.           DEFINITIONS

For the purposes of this RFP, the following underlined terms shall be defined as follows:

City: The City of Plano, Texas, a municipal corporation of Collin County, Texas, acting by and
through (a) its governing body, or (b) its City Manager, each of whom is required by law to
perform specific duties. Responsibility for final enforcement of contracts involving the City of
Plano is by authority vested in the City Manager.

City Manager: The City Manager of the City of Plano, Texas, or his/her duly authorized
designees.

Request for Proposals                                                                    Page 3 of 15
Homeless Housing and Services Program
City of Plano
REVISED 9.20.2018
CoC: The regional Continuum of Care, as established by HUD, that coordinates funding for
homeless solutions in Dallas and Collin Counties. In this RFP, CoC will refer to the TX-600 –
Dallas City & County/Irving CoC.

Contract: The written document between the City of Plano and a service provider, which
contains the terms and conditions of the agreement. The Contract includes a written statement
of work, or the specifications including special provisions and the proposal. Supplemental
changes or agreements pertaining to the work, term, price or other elements of the Contract
shall also become a part of the Contract.

Division: Community Services Division of the City of Plano Neighborhood Services Department.

HHSP: Homeless Housing and Services Program, as overseen by the Texas Department of
Housing and Community Affairs and authorized per Texas Government Code §2306.2585.

HMIS: Homeless Management Information System is a computerized data collection system
that allows agencies to enter data on homeless individuals and their households using
residential or other services and store the data in an electronic format.

MDHA: Metro Dallas Homeless Alliance, lead agency for the TX-600 CoC.

Proposal: The written offer duly submitted to the City of Plano, by the non-profit entity to perform
a contract for work described in the RFP specifications at a specified price.

Proposer: The non-profit entity that submits a written proposal for consideration to perform the
work described in the RFP.

Program: Homeless Housing and Services Program (HHSP), as overseen by the Texas
Department of Housing and Community Affairs and authorized per Texas Government Code
§2306.2585.

Responsive: An agency who has submitted a proposal which conforms in all material aspects to
the requirements stated in the RFP.

RFP: Request for Proposals.

Successful Proposer: The non-profit entity that is awarded HHSP funds under this RFP.

Very Low Income: Individuals or households assisted by the program must be at or below 50%
of Area Median Income, as determined by HUD annually. It is the Proposer’s responsibility to
verify participant’s income eligibility according to the 2018 Income Limits for Dallas, Texas. The
following table lists the 2018 Income Limits for the Dallas, Texas HUD Metro FMR Area.

     FY 2018
                       1          2         3         4         5         6         7           8
  Income Limit      PERSON     PERSON    PERSON    PERSON    PERSON    PERSON    PERSON      PERSON
    Category
   VERY LOW
    INCOME          $27,050    $30,900   $34,750   $38,600   $41,700   $44,800   $47,900     $51,000
      50%



Request for Proposals                                                                      Page 4 of 15
Homeless Housing and Services Program
City of Plano
REVISED 9.20.2018
VI.           PROGRAM ELIGIBILITY

TDHCA has provided for discretion at the local level in determining who is most in need of
HHSP program support. It is not expected that all program participants will experience the same
level of need or receive the same level of support. In order to receive HHSP services,
individuals and families must meet the following minimum criteria:

             Individual or household must be at or below 50% of the Area Median Income for the
              Dallas Metro Statistical Area (MSA), as determined by HUD.

             Individual or household must:
              o Reside in Plano; or
              o Currently reside in a shelter outside of Plano, but became homeless in Plano.
                                                                                                 REVISED
             Individual or household must meet the definition of homeless at 24 CFR 576.2(1). 9.20.2018

             Individual or household must have an initial consultation with a case manager who
              can determine the appropriate level of assistance and be willing to meet with that
              case manager at least monthly during their participation in the program.

VII.          PROPOSER’S RESPONSIBILITY

       A. Data Collection, Reporting Requirements, & Reimbursement Procedures

          The Proposer must enter all program participants assisted into HMIS at time of entry into
          the City of Plano HHSP Program, prior to disbursing financial assistance.
          Reimbursement for eligible program activities will not be paid to Proposers until program
          participants assisted are entered into HMIS.

          Proposers must submit monthly reports to the City of Plano on the City of Plano HHSP
          Monthly Report Form along with a reimbursement request for costs associated with the
          eligible activity expenses.

          Proposers must submit monthly reports via email to the City of Plano by the 15th of each
          month (i.e. report for the month of January is due by February 15th).

       B. Program participant Intake/Case Management

          The Proposer must interview and verify qualifications and experience of the case
          manager(s). The Proposer must also supervise the case manager. Case manager(s)
          must:

             Assess program participant strengths, needs, and barriers to obtaining and retaining
              housing;
             Collect demographic information and eligibility documentation;
             Enter program participant data into HMIS in a timely manner, prior to disbursement
              of any financial assistance;
             Connect program participant to resources and services that address needs identified
              by the program participant and follow up to ensure resources were accessed; and
             Work with each household in an individualized and flexible way, tailoring intensity

Request for Proposals                                                                    Page 5 of 15
Homeless Housing and Services Program
City of Plano
REVISED 9.20.2018
             and frequency of program participant contacts and services offered according to
             changes in a person’s situation and capacity.

         Due to the August 31, 2019 expenditure deadline, Successful Proposer will be expected
         to identify a case manager within six weeks of the contract award.

VIII.         CITY’S RESPONSIBILITY

The City of Plano’s responsibility is as follows:

            The City of Plano will provide technical assistance to Successful Proposer on state
             and local requirements.

            The City of Plano will pay Successful Proposer on a cost reimbursement basis for
             eligible activities. Support documentation for expenses associated with the activity,
             and City of Plano Monthly HHSP report must be submitted in order to receive
             reimbursement for HHSP eligible activity costs.

            The City of Plano will purchase HMIS software licenses for Successful Proposer who
             do not currently have the software. This amount will be deducted from the amount of
             funds available, as listed in this RFP.

            To encourage Accountability, the City of Plano will monitor Successful Proposer’s
             collection of eligibility documentation.

            To encourage Transparency, the City of Plano staff will require Successful Proposer
             (appropriate staff) to attend meetings, as deemed necessary.

            To ensure both Accountability and Transparency City of Plano will closely monitor
             Successful Proposer’s data collection and evaluation.

IX.           INSTRUCTIONS TO PROPOSERS

Proposers must have sufficient finances and resources to provide the services requested in the
RFP. Only case manager’s salaries and benefits will be funded as a direct benefit to the
Successful Proposer. All other funds must be expended directly to benefit the program
participant. All costs must be clearly identified in the Proposal. All Proposers must be able to
legally conduct business in the State of Texas. This section, Instructions To Proposers, outlines
the general conditions under which the Proposal shall be made as well as instructions on how to
prepare and submit the Proposal to the City.

      A. Eligible Activities

         For the purposes of this RFP, HHSP funds will be utilized for the provision of Rapid Re-
         housing through Financial Assistance and Case Management.

         Agencies that receive HHSP funds will be not required to provide a dollar-for-dollar
         match. No match is required.




Request for Proposals                                                                   Page 6 of 15
Homeless Housing and Services Program
City of Plano
REVISED 9.20.2018
        HHSP funds may be used for the following activities:

            1. Financial Assistance

                Financial assistance is limited to the following activities: rental assistance up to
                seven months, reasonable and customary security and utility deposits, utility
                payments, and moving cost assistance. Assisted property may not be owned by
                the sub-grantee or the parent, subsidiary or affiliated organization of the sub
                grantee.

                No participant may receive more than seven months of assistance. The City
                encourages HHSP grantees to provide ongoing case management to all program
                participants in order to transition them to independence, as well as to provide the
                “lightest touch”, using progressive engagement to determine the minimum
                amount of financial assistance needed to achieve housing stability. Proposers
                are encouraged to include an innovative and flexible approach to assisting
                homeless persons to obtain and maintain housing stability, with consideration
                given to the current cost of housing in Plano.

                Rental and utility assistance may not be used to pay for late fees or other penalty
                charges such as utility disconnection fees. All financial assistance must be used
                to provide housing within Plano city limits. Rental assistance and security
                deposits may only be provided after a rental agreement is executed between the
                landlord and program participant.

                Assisted units must comply with the housing standards at 10 TAC §7.29.
                Financial assistance may only be provided for units in which the monthly rent
                does not exceed 115% of the Small Area Fair Market Rent (SAFMR), as
                determined by HUD annually. Current limits are below.

                                   Dallas, TX HUD Metro FMR Small Area Rent Limits (115%)
                  Zip Code      Efficiency        1BR             2BR            3BR         4BR
                   75023         $1,023          $1,230          $1,506         $2,024      $2,599
                   75024         $1,265          $1,518          $1,863         $2,495      $3,197
                   75025         $1,092          $1,311          $1,610         $2,162      $2,771
                   75074          $920           $1,115          $1,368         $1,828      $2,346
                   75075          $897           $1,081          $1,322         $1,771      $2,277
                   75093         $1,138          $1,368          $1,679         $2,265      $2,898
                   75094         $1,265          $1,518          $1,863         $2,495      $3,197

            2. Case Management

                HHSP funds may be used to fund staff salaries and benefits for staff persons
                involved in assessing, arranging, coordinating and monitoring the delivery of
                services related to finding or maintaining housing for HHSP participants. Costs
                include, but are not limited to, household eligibility determination, counseling,
                coordinating services including obtaining mainstream benefits for program
                participants, monitoring program participant progress, providing safety planning


Request for Proposals                                                                       Page 7 of 15
Homeless Housing and Services Program
City of Plano
REVISED 9.20.2018
                for persons under VAWA, developing a housing and service plan, and entry into
                HMIS or an HMIS-comparable database.

                Staff funded at 100% by HHSP can work only with HHSP program participants
                and must maintain a timesheet that documents and substantiates work
                performed. Staff funded at less than 100% must document the number of hours
                actually worked on the program in relation to the total number of hours worked
                for the same time period using a timesheet.

            3. Homeless Management Information System information

                Homeless Management Information System (HMIS) is a data collection system
                that allows agencies to enter data on homeless individuals and their households
                using residential or supportive services and store the data in an electronic format.

                TDHCA requires that data collection for HHSP be conducted through HMIS.
                Reasonable and appropriate costs associated with operating an HMIS for
                purposes of collecting and reporting data required under HHSP are eligible.
                Eligible costs include purchase of HMIS software and/or user licenses, collection,
                entry and analysis, and staffing associated with the operation of the HMIS,
                including training. HMIS costs charged to the grant must be allocable based on
                the number of program participants served with HHSP funds. For example, if the
                Successful Proposer uses HMIS for 70 program participants served through a
                CoC grant and 30 program participants served through HHSP, the agency may
                only charge up to 30% of the cost of its HMIS usage to the HHSP grant.

                If the selected proposer is not a current HMIS user, the City will coordinate and
                provide access to HMIS. The funds necessary to cover this expense are
                estimated between $2,800 - $3,500.

     B. Ineligible Activities

        HHSP funds may not be used for any activities which are not listed above. Ineligible
        activities include, but are not limited to, direct payment to program participants,
        mortgage costs, storage unit payments, payments to private landlords who are relatives
        of program participants, and late fees/penalties. Funds may not be used to pay for
        certifications, licenses, and general training classes for staff. Programs may not charge
        fees to HHSP program participants. All funds (checks, no cash) must be issued to a third
        party, such as a landlord or utility company.

X.           PROPOSAL CONTENTS

Proposals should be prepared in accordance with these instructions. The proposal package
must include the following information and documents in the following order:

     A. Required Attachments

            1. Complete Organization Information, Form 1.

            2. Complete budget for HHSP funds, Form 2. Include the total budget for the
               program as outlined in the budget for HHSP funds (Form 2) including all funding
               sources.

Request for Proposals                                                                     Page 8 of 15
Homeless Housing and Services Program
City of Plano
REVISED 9.20.2018
            3. Most recent IRS form 990.

            4. Copy of the Texas Secretary of State Franchise Tax Account Status printed in
               2018.

            5. Include copy of financial statements for the current fiscal year including the most
               recent quarter preceding the Proposer’s submission in response to this RFP.

            6. Include copy of most current audited financial statements (including audit report
               and the management letter). If agency expended more than $750,000 in federal
               funds during its operating year, attach a copy of the single audit required by
               2 CFR 200.

            7. List of officers and member of the board of directors for the organization,
               including:
                     i. The city in which they live,
                    ii. Their professional affiliations and employers, and
                   iii. Their race and ethnicity (Hispanic or non-Hispanic).

    B. Qualifications and Experience Narrative

            1. Describe the Proposer’s organizational background, including number of years
               organization has been in operation, organization’s primary mission, any
               significant experience, and any other information about the organization that the
               Applicant deems pertinent to this RFP.

            2. Provide a copy of the Proposer’s organizational chart.

            3. Describe the experience of the Proposer and partners (e.g. key contractors,
               service providers, property managers, landlords, etc.) as it relates to providing
               housing and supportive services to people experiencing homelessness. Describe
               relevant experience carrying out the activities applicable to the proposed project,
               such as identifying housing units, administering rental assistance, implementing
               housing stabilization services, and serving the target population you are
               proposing to serve in this project.

            4. Describe your organization’s financial capacity to administer the grant, including
               your accounting system that will be used to administer the grant and any financial
               procedures your organization might have that may impact the implementation of
               the grant.

            5. State whether your agency currently has a program that utilizes HMIS or a
               comparable database in coordination with the CoC.

            6. Provide information on membership and participation in the TX-600 Dallas City &
               County/Irving Continuum of Care (CoC) and/or Collin County Homeless Coalition
               (CCHC). Please note that the City of Plano will verify meeting attendance and
               membership years.

            7. Did any staff from your agency attend the CoC Rapid Re-housing training offered
               by Metro Dallas Homeless Alliance on May 23-24, 2018?

Request for Proposals                                                                   Page 9 of 15
Homeless Housing and Services Program
City of Plano
REVISED 9.20.2018
            8. Describe any participation with the City of Plano on past or present contracts.

    C. Staffing

            1. Include information on the educational background and work experience of
               administrative management staff who will oversee both the program and its case
               manager. Provide the resume(s) of administrative management staff.

            2. Describe the qualifications of staff that will serve as the case manager(s) for this
               program, with consideration given to the fact that in addition to traditional case
               management activities such as assisting program participants with accessing
               community resources, Rapid Re-housing case managers must also carry out
               housing-focused activities such as housing search, housing habitability
               inspections, landlord relations, and developing housing stability plans. Include
               information on educational background and number of years of experience
               providing case management to homeless persons. If utilizing existing staff to
               provide case management, provide resume(s).

            3. If staff positions need to be filled, explain when and how they will be filled, with
               consideration given to the 10-month contract period.

            4. Describe the use of volunteers who will support the program, if any, including
               what functions they will carry out and how they will be solicited and trained.

            Staff funded at 100% by this Program can work only with HHSP program participants
            and must maintain a timesheet that document and substantiate work performed.
            Staff funded at less than 100% must document the number of hours actually worked
            on the Program or the agency must have a cost allocation plan in place to distribute
            expenses among various funding sources.

    D. Location

        Services must be delivered in a location that is easily accessible to Plano’s homeless
        population. Provide the principal location where your organization will provide services
        under this program and describe its accessibility to homeless persons. If your
        organization is not located in Plano, describe your plan to effectively deliver this program
        in Plano.

    E. Project Description

        Provide a description of the project that is complete and concise. The description must
        address the entire scope of the project, including a clear picture of the community/target
        population(s) and number to be served, how participants will be assisted to obtain and
        remain in permanent housing, projected outcome(s), and any coordination with other
        source(s)/partner(s). In cases where the proposed project is expanding an existing
        project, explain how the requested funds will supplement existing services and
        resources, or increase the number of participants served. The narrative is expected to
        describe the project at full operational capacity and to demonstrate how full capacity will
        be achieved over the term requested in this application.



Request for Proposals                                                                    Page 10 of 15
Homeless Housing and Services Program
City of Plano
REVISED 9.20.2018
        The description must be consistent with other parts of this application and include the
        following:

            1. Provide an estimate of the total number of unduplicated persons to be assisted
               with HHSP funded services (include all members of the household), as well as
               the total number of households.

            2. It is the City’s preference that the program is made available to as many of
               Plano’s homeless individuals and households as possible. Describe any
               additional eligibility factors proposed by your organization, beyond those listed in
               Section VI, Program Eligibility. Provide specific justification for each additional
               eligibility factor proposed.

            3. Describe the outreach process. How will potential program participants hear
               about your program?

            4. Describe the case management process for participants from program entry to
               program exit, with consideration given to initial qualification process, assessment
               of tenant screening barriers, housing retention barriers, program participant
               strengths, termination processes, and the location(s) of case management
               meetings.

            5. Describe the method for determining the type, amount, and duration of financial
               assistance and level of case management needed by each program participant,
               both at program entry and on an ongoing basis.

            6. Describe how the needs of program participants will be assessed at program
               entry and on an ongoing basis and the plan for addressing those needs
               including, but not limited to: physical health; behavioral health; education;
               employment; transportation; legal services; assistance with SNAP, Medicaid, and
               Social Security applications; food; life skills; and child care services. Describe
               coordination with specific partners, mainstream benefit providers, and other
               community service providers in addressing these areas.

            7. Describe the housing proposed to be utilized for program participants and the
               process that will be used to assist participants to find their own rental units in
               Plano, including enlisting participation of landlords and ensuring the widest
               possible choice of housing units.

            8. The following performance measure has been established by the City: Seventy-
               five (75%) of those who receive financial assistance through HHSP funding will
               maintain housing at least three months after program exit.

                  i.     Describe additional performance measures, if any, and include
                         description(s) on how each outcome measure will be documented.
                  ii.    Describe the follow-up process with program participants that will be used
                         to gather data for performance measures.

            9. Project timeline including:

                  i.     Detailed plan for rapid implementation of the program;

Request for Proposals                                                                   Page 11 of 15
Homeless Housing and Services Program
City of Plano
REVISED 9.20.2018
                    ii.   The month and year in which the project will begin accepting eligible
                          participants;
                   iii.   The management plan and method for assuring effective and timely
                          completion of all work.

       F.   Other Funding Sources

            Identify all other funding source(s) dedicated to the Program, if any. Other funding
            sources dedicated to the Program should be sufficient to cover the cost of the Program
            not proposed to be paid by City of Plano funding in the Program Budget. Please note
            that other funding sources are not required.

XI.             PROPOSAL FORMAT AND SUBMISSION

Please use the following format for submission of the Proposal:

        1. Send an email to nevans@plano.gov no later than Friday, October 5, requesting a
           link for DropBox submission. You will receive a link to upload your proposal within
           one business day. Upon submission via the link, you will receive an automatic email
REVISED confirmation from DropBox. You will also receive a confirmation email from Staff
9.20.2018 within one business day to confirm that items were uploaded to the folder.
           Applications submitted on the due date by 3:00 PM will receive Staff email
           confirmation by 5:00 PM. Staff will not check for completeness or contents of the
           uploaded items until the due date has passed. Please utilize Attachment B,
           Responsiveness Checklist, to ensure all required items have been included in your
           proposal.

            2. Narrative may not exceed 10 pages, excluding attachments and table of contents.

            3. Proposals must contain a "Table of Contents" with appropriate page numbers for
               locating the required information and attachments as specified in Section X, Proposal
               Contents.

XII.            PROPOSAL EVALUATION AND SELECTION

The City of Plano will conduct a comprehensive, fair and impartial evaluation of all responsive
proposals received in response to this RFP. Each proposal received will be analyzed to
determine overall responsiveness and completeness to the RFP as defined in Section X,
Proposal Contents.

       A. Selection of Reasonably Qualified Proposals

            Each proposal will be reviewed using the Responsiveness Checklist (Attachment B). A
            proposal may be declared non-responsive if any of the items listed on the
            Responsiveness Checklist are not received, a standard which the City of Plano believes
            necessary to accomplish the goal in the procurement of services requested in this RFP.
            City staff will evaluate each responsive proposal according to the attached proposal
            evaluation sheet (Attachment A) and develop an overall ranking. On the basis of the
            evaluation factors listed in Section X, Proposal Contents, and Section XI, Proposal
            Evaluation and Selection, staff will determine which Proposal(s) is reasonably qualified
            for the award of the contract.

Request for Proposals                                                                    Page 12 of 15
Homeless Housing and Services Program
City of Plano
REVISED 9.20.2018
        The City of Plano may, at any time, investigate a Proposer’s ability to perform the work.
        The City of Plano may ask for additional information about an organization and its work
        on previous contracts. Proposers may choose not to submit information in response to
        the City of Plano’s requests; however if failure to submit such information does not
        satisfy the City’s questions concerning the ability to perform, the City may discontinue
        further consideration of a particular proposal. The City of Plano would typically be
        interested in previous experience in performing similar or comparable work; staffing and
        personnel turnover; financial statement of resources for current and past periods; and
        other relevant information.

        Please be aware that the City of Plano may use sources of information not supplied by
        the Proposer concerning the abilities to perform this work. Such sources may include
        current or past customers of the organization, current or past suppliers, and media
        reports, articles from industry newsletters or other publications or from non-published
        sources made available to the City of Plano.

            1. Discussions with Reasonably Qualified Proposers

            After selection of a reasonably qualified Proposer(s), the City of Plano may enter into
            discussions with the Proposer(s). Discussions will be on an individual basis and
            closed to third parties and other Proposer(s). The Division may determine that oral
            presentations, meetings, and site visits are required before making a final decision.

            The City of Plano will review in detail all aspects of the City’s requirements and the
            Proposal. During this review, the City may request revisions to the Proposal
            submitted, prior to finalizing a contract.

            2. Confidentiality

            Proposals shall be opened so as to avoid disclosure of contents to competing
            Proposers and shall be kept confidential during the negotiation process. All
            proposals submitted for this RFP shall be open for public inspection after contract
            award.

            3. Disqualification of Proposers

            Proposers may be disqualified for any of the following reasons:

            (a) Reason to believe collusion exists among the Proposers;
            (b) The Proposer is involved in any litigation against the City of Plano;
            (c) The Proposer is or has been noncompliant on a current or prior contract with the
                City of Plano;
            (d) Lack of financial stability; or
            (e) Reason to believe a conflict of interest exists under the City’s Conflict of Interest
                policy or applicable federal regulations.

    B. Final Proposal Selection
       The Division may determine that oral presentations, meetings, and site visits are
       required before making a final decision.

        Award, if any, shall be to the Successful Proposer, whose proposal is determined to be

Request for Proposals                                                                    Page 13 of 15
Homeless Housing and Services Program
City of Plano
REVISED 9.20.2018
         the most advantageous to the City and to persons experiencing homelessness in Plano.
         The successful Proposer shall be required to execute a contract prepared by the City
         Attorney’s Office. This RFP does not commit the City to award any contract, and the City
         reserves the right to reject any and all Proposals or waive irregularities.

XIII.        HHSP REQUIREMENTS

Proposer understands that the Successful Proposer will be reimbursed under the contract with
HHSP funds received from the Texas Department of Housing and Community Affairs (TDHCA)
and agrees to comply with all applicable city, state, and federal laws, including but not limited to:
Title 10 of the Texas Administrative Code, Chapters 1 and 7, and the Uniform Grant
Management Standards (UGMS) as established by the Texas Comptroller of Public Accounts

XIV.         RECORDS RETENTION AND AUDIT REQUIREMENTS

During the term of the contractual agreement and for a period of five (5) years following
termination of the contract or until completion of any litigations, claims or audits, whichever is
later, Successful Proposer agrees to retain all books, accounts, records, reports, and files
related to HHSP and to provide access to these items to the City of Plano, the Texas
Department of Housing and Community Affairs, or any of their duly authorized representatives.
If the Successful Proposer has expended $750,000 or more in the past fiscal year, a copy of the
Proposer’s Single Audit must be provided (required by 2 CFR 200).

XV.          MONITORING REVIEWS

The City of Plano will conduct quarterly monitoring reviews of the Successful Proposer's
program and fiscal operations in accordance with the City’s Compliance and Evaluation
Guidelines and 10 TAC §7.11.

XVI.         INFORMATION ON REQUEST FOR PROPOSALS (RFP) RELEASE

      A. Informational Conference

         The City shall hold an informational conference with potential Proposers concerning the
         requirements of this RFP. Be advised, however, that verbal agreements or
         representations are not binding on the city and official statements are required to be
         handled as set forth in Section XVI(B) below.

      B. Questions about the Request for Proposals and Related Issues

         During your review of the RFP and preparation of proposals, Proposers may discover
         certain errors, omissions or ambiguities. If this is the case, or if the meaning of any part
         of this RFP is unclear, Proposer must submit questions to the Neighborhood Services
         Division via email by October 5, 2018 to allow the City to answer the questions and
         distribute written responses to all Proposers before the proposal submission deadline.
         All inquiries must be directed via email to Natalie Evans, City of Plano.
         If the Proposer does not ask questions or clarify any assumptions, the City will assume
         Proposer understands the City’s requirements and that the Proposer’s offering will meet
         those needs at the price stated.



Request for Proposals                                                                     Page 14 of 15
Homeless Housing and Services Program
City of Plano
REVISED 9.20.2018
        Please direct your inquiries to the office of:
            City of Plano
            Community Services Division
            Natalie Evans, Grants Analyst
            nevans@plano.gov
            972-208-8235

    C. Opening of Proposals

        All proposals must be submitted via the instructions detailed in Section XI, Proposal
        Format and Submission, no later than the due date and time as shown on the RFP table
        of contents.

        Proposals must be opened by the City so as to avoid disclosure of contents to
        competing Proposers and kept secret and confidential during the process of negotiation.
        Proposals will not be publicly read.

    D. Late Proposals

        Proposals received by the Community Services Division after the time and date specified
        on the table of contents will not be considered. Any proposal may be withdrawn prior to
        the scheduled time for proposal receipt.




Request for Proposals                                                               Page 15 of 15
Homeless Housing and Services Program
City of Plano
REVISED 9.20.2018
                                                                                 Attachment A

                                City of Plano
                        Community Services Division
                    Homeless Housing and Services Program
                              Evaluation Sheet

Qualifications and Experience Narrative (20 points)

   •    Organization’s history and mission is clearly described.
   •    Copy of organizational chart is provided.
   •    Prior experience with implementing proposed activities is clearly demonstrated.
   •    Adequate financial control system and procedures are clearly described.
   •    Organization provided an answer as to whether it currently uses HMIS.
   •    Organization is a member of the TX-600 CoC.
   •    If organization has prior experience on City of Plano contracts, a description is provided.
        Agency has expended City of Plano funds in a timely manner, met goals, and completed
        quarterly reports and reimbursement requests timely and accurately.

       Score:
       Comments:




Staffing (10 points)

   •    Staff administering the proposed project have previous experience with implementing
        proposed activities or, if not, applicant has clearly indicated how staff will obtain the
        capacity needed to administer the project.
   •    Resumes provided for both administrative management staff and case manager.
   •    Skilled, trained volunteers will be used to support program functions and improve
        efficiency where appropriate.
       Score:
       Comments:
                                                                                  Attachment A
Location (15 points)

   •    Organization is located in Plano, near public transit, and is accessible to persons
        experiencing homelessness, both sheltered and unsheltered.
   •    If organization is not located in Plano, there is a clear plan to deliver services in Plano or
        to bring services directly to Program Participants. Program Participants are not
        burdened by long travel times to access case manager and other services.
       Score:
       Comments:




Project Description (35 points)

   •    An estimate of the total number of unduplicated households and individuals is provided.
   •    Organization will make services available to as many qualified Program Participants as
        possible, instead of requiring additional eligibility factors such as meeting criteria for a
        specific subpopulation of homeless persons or requiring income or employment as part
        of initial qualification process.
   •    Clear description of outreach process and partnerships that maximizes the number of
        eligible persons made aware of the program.
   •    Clear description of case management processes and client assessments that
        demonstrate knowledge and experience of Rapid Re-housing best practices.
   •    Clear description for how supportive services will be coordinated with other programs
        within the agency and how the applicant collaborates with other agencies in the
        community.
   •    Well-defined plan to locate eligible, suitable housing, including outreach to property
        owners and managers.
   •    Additional outcome measures, if any, are clearly defined, measurable and demonstrate
        the benefit to Program Participants. Procedures for measuring outcomes ensure
        maximum data collection.
   •    Project timeline allows for a November 1 program start date, and clear description is
        provided for implementation plan and management plan that ensures timely expenditure
        of funds.
       Score:
       Comments:
                                                                                Attachment A
Organizational Finances and budget (15 points)

   •    Most recent unaudited financial statements for current fiscal year, as well as most recent
        audited financial statements (including the management letter) and single audit, if
        required, are positive indicator(s) that agency is financially able to perform the services.
   •    Budget appears reasonable when compared with the number of people projected to be
        served.

       Score:
       Comments:




Overall Quality (5 points)

   •    Information presented in a manner that was clearly understood and well organized.
   •    Minimal grammatical and spelling errors.
   •    Proposal did not exceed 10 pages, including attachments.
       Score:
       Comments:




Bonus: Organization staff attended the CoC Rapid Re-housing Training offered by MDHA on
May 23-24, 2018. (5 points)

       Score:
       Comments:




Total Score out of 100 points:
                                                                                 Attachment B

                                 City of Plano
                         Community Services Division
                     Homeless Housing and Services Program
                           Responsiveness Checklist


Name of Project:

City of Plano staff will review the Proposal for responsiveness. To be considered responsive, all
of the following items must be included in the Proposal. If a Proposal does not contain any one
of these items, the Proposal will be considered to be non-responsive, and will not be given
consideration for funding. The Proposer will be notified of that determination via email.

Proposers are strongly encouraged to review the list below and the Proposal
requirements, to ensure that the Proposal includes each of these items.


Name of Proposer:



                                Description of Item                       Yes or No
           Organization Information (Form 1)
           Program Budget (Form 2)
           Most recent IRS Form 990
           Texas Secretary of State Franchise Tax Account Status
           printed in 2018
           Current financial statements (most recent quarter and YTD)
           Most recent audited financial statements
           (with audit report and management letter)
           List of Board Members (with race, ethnicity, city, and
           employer/professional affiliation)
           Qualifications and Experience Narrative
           Staffing
           Location
           Project Description
           Description of Other Funding Sources (if other sources
           included in program budget – Form 2)

This Proposal is: [ ] Responsive       [ ] Non-responsive




Staff Signature:                                                        Date:




                                            Attachment B
                                                                               Form 1

                              City of Plano
                     Community Services Division
                 Homeless Housing and Services Program
                           Information Sheet

                          ORGANIZATION INFORMATION

   Legal Name of Organization:

   DBA (if applicable):

   Physical Address:

   Mailing Address (if different from above):

   CONTACT PERSON:                            TITLE:

   PHONE:                               EMAIL:


2. PROGRAM TITLE:


3. APPLICANT’S ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE: (Check applicable box)

       Public Agency            Private, Non-profit            Private, For-profit
       Partnership or Joint Venture                         Other:

Organization Federal Tax ID Number:

4. AGENCY APPROVAL: By signing below, Organization certifies that Organization
has read the entire RFP and provided true and correct information in Organization’s
Proposal submission. The signer of this form certifies that he/she is authorized to bind
the Organization.


_________________________________________________                _____________
Signature of Authorized Individual                               Date


Name and Title of Authorized Individual
                                                                                                   Form 2

                                      City of Plano
                              Community Services Division
                          Homeless Housing and Services Program
                                       Budget Form

AGENCY NAME: __________________________________________________________

                                                10 Month Cost Allocation
                                                                    Total Program Cost
                                             Requested from City            Other Sources
           Cost Category                         $ Amount                     $ Amount             Total
HMIS

                Estimated HMIS fees*
                                                                                              0
                              Subtotal $ 0                             $0                      0
Case Management
      Case Manager Salaries/Benefits
                                                                                              $0
       # Positions Requested (     )
                              Subtotal $ 0                             $0                     $0
Financial Assistance

                                  Rent                                                        $0

                    Security Deposits                                                         $0

                       Utility Payments                                                       $0

                        Utility Deposits                                                      $0
                         Moving Costs                                                         $0
                             Subtotal      $0                          $0                     $0
                   Grand Total** $ 0                                   $0                     $0

*If your organization currently uses HMIS, include only the total dollar amount expected to be allocable to
HHSP (not the entire annual cost of HMIS for your organization). If your organization does not currently use
HMIS, place $3,500 in the "Requested from City" and "Total" lines for the HMIS category. Please note that if
you are not a current HMIS user, the $3,500 cost for HMIS will not be included in your contract, as the City
will procure HMIS and provide access to your organization.
**The Grand Total for the "Requested from City" column may not exceed $137,563.
