           Request for Proposal

                        for

(DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES REQUESTED)

                      Issued by:
          Indiana University of Pennsylvania
                (Procurement Agent)



          RFP #(Insert Number)

             Issue Date: (Date Issued)
      Response Date: (Date due and Time) (EST)




                     Page 1 of 13
                                                                         RFP #(Insert Number)
                                                     (DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES REQUESTED)



                                                                              Table of Contents

                                                                                                                                                                Page

Part I     General Information ...................................................................................................................................... 3


Part II    Work Statement & Objectives of the RFP ............................................................................................. X


Part III   Information Required From Suppliers .................................................................................................. X


Part IV    Criteria for Selection ..................................................................................................................................... X


Appendix A – Agreement to Commonwealth of Pennsylvania Standard Terms and Conditions
Appendix B – Technical Proposal Form
Appendix C – Cost Proposal Form
Appendix D ‐ Contractor Responsibility Program
(Insert Summary time line for the Agreement)




                                                                                    Page 2 of 13
                              REQUEST FOR PROPOSAL FORMAT

                                                  PART I

I-1   Purpose. This request for proposal (RFP) provides interested contractors with sufficient information
      to enable them to prepare and submit proposals for consideration by Indiana University of Pennsylvania,
      herein after referred to as University, to satisfy a need for (insert title of study or services).

I-2   Issuing Office. This RFP is issued by Procurement Services, Indiana University of Pennsylvania.
      The Issuing Office is the sole point of contact for this RFP.

      (PROCUREMENT AGENT)
      (TITLE)
      Indiana University of Pennsylvania
      Robertshaw Building
      650 South 13th Street
      Indiana, PA 15705-1087
      Telephone:_________________Fax:_______________
      E-mail:_______________________________________

      I-3     Questions. Questions or requests for clarification regarding this RFP must be submitted via the
      questions tab on https://www.ebidexchange.com/PASSHE/, by (Time) (EST) (Day and Date). All
      questions must be submitted by (Time) (EST) (Day and Date). On or before (Time) (EST) (Day and
      Date)., those Contractors who registered at https://www.ebidexchange.com/PASSHE/ (see Section IV-3
      for further instructions) will be notified by e-mail, responses to questions concerning the RFP. If a
      Contractor does not have the capability to use the Internet, please notify the issuing office.

      From the issue date of this RFP until a determination is made regarding the selection of a Contractor, all
      contacts concerning this RFP must be made through the issuing office. Only information supplied by the
      issuing office, including responses to questions regarding the RFP, should be used in preparing
      proposals. Any and all other contacts or information received regarding the subject prior to the release
      of this RFP should be disregarded in preparing responses. Any violation of this condition is cause for
      University to reject a Contractor’s proposal. If it is later discovered that any violations have occurred,
      University will reject the proposal.

I-4   Scope. This RFP contains instructions governing the proposals to be submitted and the material to be
      included therein; a description of the services to be provided; requirements which must be eligible for
      consideration; general evaluation criteria; and other requirements to be met by each proposal.

I-5   Problem Statement. (Insert a general statement of the purpose and scope of the work to be done,
      and time constraints under which the work must be done. The problem statement should be brief
      since the contractor is provided a detailed work statement in Part II, to which reference may be made
      in this paragraph.)




                                                  Page 3 of 13
       I-6    Type of Contract. It is proposed that, if a contract is entered into as a result of successful
       negotiations, the selected Contractor will be required to sign a standard Commonwealth of Pennsylvania
       contract. This agreement will contain the provisions shown as the Service Purchase Contract Terms and
       Conditions found in Appendix A of this request for proposal. Proposal/contract negotiations may be
       undertaken with Contractors whose proposals show them to be qualified, responsible, and capable of
       performing the work. The “Work Statement,” as negotiated, will be incorporated into the standard
       contract.

       Contract terms and conditions are negotiated upon issuance of intent to award to the Contractor.
       However, some of the terms are not negotiable as they are required to do business with the
       Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. Prohibited contract clauses include assignment clauses, law of the
       contract, attorney’s fees, court costs, entry of judgment, indemnity and hold-harmless clauses,
       arbitration clauses, payment in advance and payment of insurance. Specific contract clauses of
       Appendix A in the following sections are not negotiable. Section 3: Compliance with Law, Section 13:
       Assignment of Antitrust Claims, Section 14: Hold Harmless Provision, Section 20: Assignability and
       Subcontracting, and Section 27: Applicable Law.

       The Contractor will be deemed to have accepted the standard terms and conditions, except as are
       expressly disputed in the Contractor’s proposal. If exceptions are expressly disputed, the Contractor
       must submit a “redlined” version of the term or condition showing all modifications proposed by the
       Contractor. The Contractor must provide an explanation as to why the modification is required. The
       Contractor’s willingness to accept the Appendix A Terms and Conditions, with minor clarifications,
       shall be an affirmative factor in the evaluation of the Contractor’s proposal. Contractors must submit any
       exceptions to the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania contract in their response and include any contracts,
       orders forms, and terms/conditions for which the Contractor requires signature.

I-7    Contract Length. The University desires to enter into a (base number of contract Years) with
       (number or renewals and contract years) renewal. The total proposed term of the contract is not to
       exceed five years.

I-8    Rejection of Proposals. The University reserves the right to reject any and all proposals received as a
       result of this request, or to negotiate separately with competing contractors.

I-9    Incurring Costs.    The University is not liable for any cost incurred by contractors prior to issuance of
       a contract.

I-10   Preproposal Conference. (It is not always necessary to hold a preproposal conference. Through
       discussion between the Purchasing Services office and requisitioner, it will be determined if a
       preproposal conference is required.) A preproposal conference will be held on the date and at the place
       specified in the cover letter. The purpose of this conference is to clarify any points in the RFP which
       may not have been clearly understood. Questions must be forwarded to the Issuing Office prior to the
       meeting to insure that sufficient analysis can be made before an answer is supplied. In view of the
       limited facilities available for the conference, it is requested that representation be limited to (insert
       number of persons per contractor the selected conference room can accommodate, taking into
       consideration Issuing Office and other University requirements) individuals per contractor. The
       preproposal conference is for information only. Answers furnished during the conference will not be
       official until verified in writing by the Issuing Office.

I-11   Amendment to the RFP. If it becomes necessary to revise any part of this RFP, an amendment will
       be issued to all registered Contractors for the RFP via the web-site
       https://www.ebidexchange.com/PASSHE/.
                                                   Page 4 of 13
I-12   Response Date. To be considered, proposals must be posted to
       https://www.ebidexchange.com/PASSHE/ no later than     (DATE and TIME)                . Late submissions
       will not be accepted.

I-13   Proposals. To be considered, proposals must consist of a complete response using the format provided
       in Part IV of this RFP. Proposals must be submitted utilizing https://www.ebidexchange.com/PASSHE/.
       If a Contractor does not have the capability to use this eProcurement tool, please notify the issuing
       office. Proposals must consist of a complete response to the requirements outlined herein and shall be
       submitted to the issuing office no later than the required submission date. No other distribution of
       proposals will be made by the Contractor. Proposal contents will become contractual obligations if and
       when a contract is executed. The proposal, as submitted, must remain valid (for number of days or
       during the entire solicitation, award, and contract finalization process).

I-14   Economy of Preparation. Proposals should be prepared simply and economically, providing a
       straightforward, concise description of the contractor's ability to meet the requirements of the RFP.

I-15   Oral Presentation. Contractors who submit proposals may be required to make an oral presentation of
       their proposal to the University. Such presentations provide an opportunity for the contractor to clarify
       their proposal to insure thorough mutual understanding. The Issuing Office will schedule these
       presentations.

I-16   Prime Contractor Responsibilities. The selected contractor will be required to assume responsibility
       for all services offered in their proposal whether or not the Contractor produces them. Further, the
       University will consider the selected contractor to be the sole point of contact with regard to contractual
       matters.

I-17   Disclosure of Proposal Contents. Cost and price information provided in proposals will be held in
       confidence and will not be revealed or discussed with competitors, except to the extent required by law.
       All other material submitted becomes the property of the University and may be returned only at the
       University’s option. Proposals submitted to the University may be reviewed and evaluated by any
       person other than competing bidders at the discretion of the University. The University has the right to
       use any or all ideas presented in any reply to the RFP. Selection or rejection of the proposal does not
       affect this right. Where confidential or proprietary information is required, or should the vendor deem it
       necessary to submit such matter, mark each page/section in large bold type (PROPRIETARY
       INFORMATION). Please be advised that effective January 1, 2009 all responses to this procurement
       opportunity are subject to the Pennsylvania Right-to-Know Law, 65 P.S. §67.101 et seq., (Act 3 of
       2008). The Right-to-Know Law permits any requestor to inspect and/or copy any record prepared and
       maintained or received in the course of the operation of a public office or agency that is not subject to
       the enumerated exceptions under the law. If your response to the procurement opportunity contains
       a trade secret or confidential proprietary information, you should include with your response a
       separate signed written statement to that effect. Should your response become the subject of a
       Pennsylvania Right-to-Know Law request, you will be notified by the procurement office to identify all
       trade secrets or confidential and proprietary information that is included in your response. The
       agency will then determine whether the claimed trade secret or confidential and proprietary
       information is subject to disclosure.

I-18   Debriefing Conferences. Contractors whose proposals are not selected will be notified of the name of
       the selected contractor and will be given the opportunity to be debriefed. The Issuing Office will
       schedule the time and location of the debriefing.

                                                   Page 5 of 13
I-19   News Releases. News releases pertaining to this project will not be made without prior University
       approval, and then only in coordination with the Issuing Office.

I-20   University Participation. (Indicate the number and type of personnel who will be assigned to this
       effort and specify the function to be performed, e.g., project officer, programmers, clerical support,
       training. Also indicate whether or not office space, reproduction facilities, or other logistical support
       will be provided by the University.)

I-21   Collaborative Procurement. Services described within this Request for Proposal awarded by
       University to the Contractor may also be procured by any other University that is part of the
       Pennsylvania State System of Higher Education (“PASSHE”), including the Dixon University Center
       (Office of the Chancellor) and the Contractor agrees to supply the services to those universities on the
       same terms and conditions. To the extent that other universities may procure services awarded through
       the Request for Proposal process, they assume the liability for payment to the successful Contractor.

I-22   Contractor Responsibility Program. Contractors must certify that they are not currently under
       suspension or debarment by the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, any other state, or the federal
       government to the best to their knowledge. Additionally, Contractors must certify that they are not tax
       delinquent with either the Pennsylvania Department of Revenue or the Pennsylvania Department of
       Labor and Industry to the best of their knowledge. Contractors must acknowledge that if they are
       currently under suspension or debarment, or if they owe delinquent taxes, their proposal may not be
       accepted or considered. Contractors will certify to all of the above upon submittal of their proposal
       (Appendix D).

I-23   Reciprocal Limitations Act – Contractor’s that are non-resident bidders with a proposal greater than
       $10,000, must complete and submit pages 3 and 4 of the form GSPUR-89 located at
       www.dgsweb.state.pa.us/comod/CurrentForms/GSPUR89.doc with their bid.

I-24   Prime Contractor/Subcontracting. Contractors will be considered prime Contractors with respect to
       an awarded Contract. Use of subcontractors must be approved in writing by University. Prime
       Contractors are encouraged to solicit participation from Small, Veteran-Owned, Minority and Women-
       Owned Business Enterprises when requiring subcontractors.

I-25   Cost Data. All cost data for the proposal shall be submitted as a separate document (Appendix C),
       apart from the Technical Proposal (Appendix B). Absolutely no pricing can appear anywhere in the
       Technical Proposal. Failure to meet this requirement will result in automatic disqualification of the
       proposal.

I-26   (Optional may not apply to all contracts – delete if the paragraph does not apply.) Conditional Price
       Escalations Escalation of annual costs for subsequent years of this contract is not automatic and shall
       not exceed inflation guidelines as established by the nationally accepted Consumer Price Index-Urban
       (CPI) for each year for this particular commodity or service. Contractor must provide documentation to
       justify escalation and make escalation request in writing on an annual basis, submitted by February of
       each year. Should escalation figures prove to be above CPI levels, the contractor must provide sufficient
       justification for the increase and said increase must be acceptable to the University. Newly negotiated
       labor agreements, federally recognized fuel inflation adjustments, statutory increases, and applicable
       federal and state wage laws are acceptable increases which may exceed CPI levels.




                                                   Page 6 of 13
                                                   PART II

                                          WORK STATEMENT

(The work statement is the most important part of the RFP. It is essential that the University thoroughly
analyze the work to be done so that the contractor can be given explicit information on the nature and scope
of the work. Without this information, it is unlikely that the contractor will be able to submit a responsive
proposal and ultimately perform the work satisfactorily. Each RFP work statement must be tailored to the
specific work being contracted for. As general guidance, a format for the work statement is provided below.
Even though the format given below will require some modification, the paragraph numbering system and,
to the extent practicable, the major paragraph headings should be used. Of particular importance is the
segmentation of the work to be done into tasks. The tasks are the basis for proposal preparation, pricing,
and evaluation as well as for contract management once work is begun.


II-1   Objectives.

       a. General. (State in general terms the University’s objectives in initiating the project. The
          objectives should reflect what the University expects to gain from the study or service.)

       b. Specific. (List specific objectives of the proposed study or service.)


II-2     Nature and Scope of the Project. (Describe what the project is to include, what geographical area
         is to be covered, etc.)


II-3     Requirements. (Describe volumes that a proposed system must accommodate. Describe any
         specific quality control requirements, performance standards, time constraints, etc., that the
         University expects the contractor to meet.)


II-4     Tasks. (List and describe the tasks or work steps into which the project has been divided by
         preliminary University analysis. For each task, describe what the contractor is expected to do and
         what he is expected to produce. If the project is to be conducted in phases, specify tasks and
         deliverables for each phrase; also indicate any approvals needed before moving into the next phase.
         If the project requires a level of effort rather than precise products, show the number of and type of
         personnel required.)

         (As indicated in Part III of the RFP, the contractor is given the opportunity to recommend
         modifications to the task segmentation and their proposal. However, to facilitate effective
         evaluation of such changes, the task statement in the RFP should be painstakingly prepared.)




                                                   Page 7 of 13
II-5   Reports and Project Control. (All contracts require formal control by the University to insure that
       the contractor meets the University’s needs. Control is usually exercised through the requirement for
       oral and written reports and other documentation such as plans, proposals, or recommendations that
       must be approved before the contractor proceeds further with the work. The detail and frequency of
       the reports depend upon the size and nature of the contract. Since the contractor must necessarily
       include the cost of report preparation in their total costs, care must be exercised to keep the number
       and frequency of reports to a minimum consistent with the need for contract control. This portion of
       the RFP should be specific as to the content, frequency, and number of copies of each report
       required. It is desirable and, in the case of the final report, necessary to provide formats for the
       written reports. The following illustrate the type and scope of reports and other documentation that
       might be required.)

       a. Task Plan. A work plan for each task that identifies the work elements of each task, the resources
          assigned to the task, and the time allotted to each element and the deliverable items to be produced.
          Where appropriate, a PERT or GNATT chart display should be used to show project, task, and time
          relationship.

       b. Status Report. A periodic (specified) progress covering activities, problems and recommendations;
          the report should be keyed to the work plan developed by the contractor in their proposal, as
          amended or approved by the University.

       c. Problem Identification Report. An “as required” report, identifying problem areas. The report
          should describe the problem and its impact on the overall project and on each affected task. It
          should list possible courses of action with advantages and disadvantages of each, and include
          contractor recommendations with supporting rationale.

       d. Final Report. In all cases, a requirement should be included for the submission of draft copies of the
          final report to permit the University to satisfy itself as to the report’s completeness and factual
          accuracy. A format should be provided for the final report. The format should specify the content of
          the final report in detail comparable to the following:

          (1)   Abstract or summarize the result of the study or service in terminology that will be meaningful
                to management and other generally familiar with the subject areas.

          (2)   Describe data collection and analytical and other techniques used during the study.

          (3)   Summarize finding, conclusions, and recommendations developed in each task.

          (4)   Include all supporting documentation; e.g., flow charts, forms, questionnaires, etc.

          (5)   Recommend a time-phased work plan for implementing the recommendations.




                                                   Page 8 of 13
                                                   PART III

                    INFORMATION REQUIRED FROM THE CONTRACTOR


Contractor proposals must be submitted in the format outlined below. To be considered, the proposal must
respond to all requirements in this part of the RFP. Any other information thought to be relevant, but not
applicable to the enumerated categories, should be provided in the Miscellaneous section of Appendix B.


III-1   Statement of the Problem. (Appendix B) State in succinct terms your understanding of the problem
        presented or the service required by this RFP.

III-2   Management Summary. (Appendix B) Include a narrative description of the proposed effort and a list
        of the items to be delivered or services to be provided.

III-3   Work Plan. (Appendix B) Describe in narrative form your technical plan for accomplishing the work.
        Use the task descriptions in Part II of this RFP as your point of departure. Modifications of the task
        descriptions are permitted; however, reasons for changes should be fully explained. Indicate the number
        of man-hours allocated to each task. Include a Program Evaluation and Review Technique (PERT) or
        similar type display, time related, showing each event. If more than one approach is apparent, comment
        on why you chose this approach.

III-4   Prior Experience. (Appendix B) Include experience in (insert the type of service or study that is the
        subject of the RFP; also insert reference to any special techniques or experience that the University
        considers necessary to accomplish the job). Experience shown should be work done by individuals
        who will be assigned to this project as well as that of your company. Studies or projects referred to
        should be identified and the name of the customer shown, including the name, address and telephone
        number of the responsible official of the customer, company, or agency who may be contacted. Vendors
        are to provide with the RFP response copies of financial statements to include an Income Statement and
        Balance Sheet for the most recently completed fiscal year. (If references and/or financial statements
        are to be part of the proposal evaluation, specify in this section what is required from bidders.)

III-5   Personnel. (Appendix B) Include the number of executive and professional personnel, analyst,
        auditors, researchers, programmers, consultants, etc., who will be engaged in the work. Show where
        these personnel will be physically located during the time they are engaged in the work. Include
        education and experience in (insert the type of service or study that is the subject of the RFP: also
        insert reference to any special techniques or experience that the University considers necessary to the
        accomplishment of the job). Indicate the responsibilities each will have in the project and how long
        each has been with your company.

III-6   Training. (Appendix B) If appropriate, indicate recommended training of University personnel.
        Include the University personnel to be trained, the number to be trained, duration of the program, place
        of training, curricula, training materials to be used, number of frequency of sessions, and number and
        level of instructions.




                                                    Page 9 of 13
III-7   Value Added Services. (Appendix B) Differentiators that provide value to the University that go
        beyond dollar and cents measurements such as a help desk in the case of computer installations, free
        architectural design services for furniture installations or Small, Veteran-Owned, Minority and Women-
        Owned Business Enterprise subcontractor participation, and other like considerations.

III-8   Cost and Price Analysis. (Appendix C) The information requested in this section is required to support
        the reasonableness of your quotation and is for internal University use only. This portion of the proposal
        must be submitted separately from the remainder of the proposal. (Use the appropriate items in the
        following format. If project will involve costs over more than one year, show fiscal year breakdowns.)

        a. Direct Labor Costs. Itemize so as to show the following for each category of personnel with a
           different rate per hour:

           (1)   Category; e.g., partner, project manager, analyst, senior auditor, research associate.

           (2)   Estimated hours.

           (3)   Rate per hour.

           (4)   Total cost for each category and for all direct labor costs.


        b. Labor Overhead. Specify what is included and rate used.

        c. Travel. Itemize transportation and per diem costs separately.

        d. Consultant Costs. Itemize as in 1 above.

        e. Subcontract Costs. Itemize.

        f. Cost of Supplies and Materials. Itemize.

        g. Other Direct Costs. Itemize

        h. General Overhead Costs. Specify what is included and rate used.

        i. Fee or Profit. (Inclusion of this item depends on type of contract to be awarded.)

        j. Total Cost.

III-9   Appendix A. Contractor must sign and return Appendix A. See I-6 regarding explanation of Appendix
        A.
        Appendix B. Contractor response to technical requirements of the RFP. See III-1 through III-7 for
        explanation of technical requirements.
        Appendix C. Contractor response to Cost Price Analysis. See III-8 for explanation of Cost Price
        Analysis. Absolutely no pricing can appear anywhere in the Technical Proposal. Failure to meet this
        requirement will result in automatic disqualification of the proposal.
        Appendix D. Contractor must sign and return Appendix D. See I-22 regarding explanation of
        Appendix D.



                                                    Page 10 of 13
                                                  PART IV

                                     CRITERIA FOR SELECTION
IV-1. All proposals received from contractors will be reviewed and evaluated by a committee of qualified
      University personnel. This committee will recommend for selection the proposal which most closely
      meets the requirements of the RFP and satisfies University needs.

IV-2. The following areas of consideration will be used in making the selection: (Sub-criteria and additional
      major criteria may be used, as desired. Remember that criteria not shown in the RFP may not be
      used to evaluate proposals.)

       a. Understanding the Problem. This refers to the contractor’s understanding of the University needs
          that generated the RFP, of the University’s objectives in asking for the services or undertaking the
          study, and of the nature and scope of the work involved.

       b. Contractor Qualifications. This refers to the ability of the contractor to meet the terms of the RFP,
          especially the time constraint and the quality, relevancy, and recency of studies and projects
          completed by the contractor. This also includes the contractor’s financial ability to undertake a
          project of this size.

       c. Professional Personnel. This refers to the competence of professional personnel who would be
          assigned to the job by the contractor. Qualifications of professional personnel will be measured by
          experience and education, with particular reference to experience on studies/services similar to that
          described in the RFP. Particular emphasis is placed on the qualifications of the Project Manager.

       d. Soundness of Approach. Emphasis here is on the techniques for collecting and analyzing data,
          sequence and relationships of major steps, and methods for managing the study/service. Of equal
          importance is whether the technical approach is completely responsive to all written specifications
          and requirements contained in the RFP and if it appears to meet University objectives.

       e. Value Added Services. This refers to the services that the contractor provides value to the
          University that go beyond dollar and cents measurements.

       f. Available Facilities. (Include here, if appropriate, reference to physical facilities such as
          convenient local office space that may be significant in the selection and that the contractor must
          provide.)

       g. Terms and Conditions. Ability of the vendor to accept the stated Terms and Conditions as outlined
          in Appendix A.

       h. Cost. While this area will be weighted heavily, it will not normally be the deciding factor in the
           selection process. Cost information will be provided in Appendix C of the RFP. Absolutely no
           pricing can appear anywhere in the Technical Proposal. Failure to meet this requirement will result
           in automatic disqualification of the proposal.
       (A maximum point value for each major criterion and a total value for all criteria should be
       established at this time but should not be included in the RFP.)

IV-3   Instructions for Proposal Submissions       University is utilizing an electronic procurement system for
       its solicitations. In order to submit a proposal, interested Contractors need to register at PASSHE’s
       https://www.ebidexchange.com/PASSHE/. Registration is a free process that takes only a few minutes
                                                  Page 11 of 13
to complete. Once registered, Contractors may obtain all solicitation documents, receive notification of
solicitation updates, and submit and update their confidential proposals online.

Proposals that are not in compliance with RFP guidelines will not be considered.

Important: Contractors should contact the issuing office if they are unable to register correctly, or if
they     experience    difficulty   in      uploading/downloading        documents        from      the
https://www.ebidexchange.com/PASSHE/.

Response Format: Proposals are to be straightforward, clear, concise and specific to the information
requested. In order for Proposals to be considered complete, Contractors must provide the information
requested in Section III of this RFP. As part of their Proposals, Contractors must a separate document
for costs (Appendix C). Pricing shall include all anticipated charges.

       Prices proposed in the Contractor’s response will be valid for a minimum of ___(Number of
       Days)____. Contractors’ Proposals must describe how future price increases will be minimized
       and capped and how both increases and decreases will be passed on to University. Contractors
       must explain the proposed process to implement price changes.

Additional Information: In addition to responding to the information requested in Section III of this
RFP, include the following information as well.

   Provide a brief description of your implementation plan. Include the length of time required for the
    implementation and what information is required from the University to achieve the implementation.
   Provide information on sustainability initiatives, if any.
   Provide information on diversity initiatives, if any.
   List any other value-added services.

Contractor Registration Instructions:

To register, visit the https://www.ebidexchange.com/PASSHE/ and click on the ‘Register’ tab
and enter the required information. A “Vendor Quick Start Guide” is also available to assist in
the registration process.

Using PASSHE’s EProcurement Exchange:

Sealed Bid Confidentiality – At no time can any other Contractor see your electronic proposal.

Confidentiality of Identity – When questions are asked and answered, bidder identity is not
disclosed to other bidders.

Documents – All documents may be downloaded directly to your computer (Contractors must
be registered to access documents).

Being added to the “Bidders List” – By downloading any document, you are automatically
added to the list of bidders for the solicitation.

Questions – by clicking on the “Questions” tab, you can see all questions that have been asked
and answered related to the solicitation. You can also ask questions directly through this tab.


                                          Page 12 of 13
When University answers the question, both the question and answer are emailed directly to all
bidders. The identity of the Contractor asking the question is not disclosed.

Submitting and Updating Bids – You may submit and update your bid anytime up to the bid
due date and time by clicking on the “Bid” tab.

What to Submit with your Proposal:
Click on the “Bid” tab.
      Answer Request For Information (RFI) items if provided.
      Attach a zipped folder containing the documents listed below:
          Technical Proposal
          Cost Proposal
          Any additional appendices to the technical or cost proposal (please review carefully
           to ensure your technical documents do not contain cost information).


How to Submit your Proposal:
Save your files as a single zipped folder. From the Bid tab, click on “browse” (middle of the
page), then find and select the zipped folder name. The zipped folder will be attached to your
bid submission when the Submit Bid button is clicked. The maximum individual file or folder
size is 20Mb. Instructions to zip a file are in the FAQ section at the eProcurement Exchange.
Refer to Microsoft’s Help Guide for additional instructions. Contact the issuing office for
assistance if needed.

Verifying that your Proposal was Submitted - If submitted properly, you will receive an
acknowledgement appearing in the middle of your screen saying “Your bid has been recorded”
and a bid receipt number will be provided.

Withdrawing Your Proposal - You may withdraw your proposal at any time up to proposal due
date and time by simply clicking on Withdraw Bid, located at the bottom of the Bid tab.

Help Guides - There are several Help Guides and video tutorials available on the various
screens. If additional support is needed, please contact the issuing office.




                                                                                    Revised 2/20/14




                                          Page 13 of 13
