                                city of
                               'ATI


    Request for Proposal (RFP)

                        Manual

               EFFECTIVE DATE: January 28,2016




City Manager   ~~lack
                           ChiefProcuremen,offic$ 2 . L v   M.;    ~~Cs
                                                       Patrick A. Duhaney
Table of Contents
INTRODUCTION TO THE RFP……………………………………………………………………….. 4
  The Purpose of this Manual…………………………………………………………………………….. .4
  Purchasing Authority……………………………………………………………………………………..5
  Circumventing Procurement Laws…………………………………...…………………………………..5
  Conflicts of Interest and Contracting Ethics……………………………………………………………...5
  Unfair Competitive Advantages………………………………………………………………………….6
  Professional and Nonstandard Services Excluded from Procu…….……………………………………..6
  Waiving the Procurement Requirements in this Manual….……………………………………………...6
  Determining Whether RFI, RFP, or RFQ is Appropriate ……………..………………………………...7



WHAT GOES INTO A RFP PROCESS?...................................................................................................8
 RFP Template…………………………………………………………………………………………….8
 Scope of Services…………………………………………………………………………………………9
 Structuring the RFP……………………………………………..………………………………………10
 Appointing an Evaluation/Selection Committee………………………………………………………..12
 Evaluation Committee Members………………………………………………………………………..13
 Duties and Responsibilities of Evaluation Committee Members……………………………………….13
 Committee Meetings…………………………………………………………………………………….14
 Understanding solicitation documents…………………………………………………………………..14
 M/WBE and SBE Goal Setting………………………………………………………………………….15
 Communications with Proposers………………………………………………………………………..15
 The Scoring Matrix……………………………………………………………………………………...16
 Evaluation of Offerors’ Proposals………………………………………………………………………17
 Pre-Proposal Meetings or Site Visits……………………………………………………………………19
 Preparing for a Pre-Proposal Meeting…………………………………………………………………..19
 Addenda to the Requests for Proposals………………..………………………………………………..20
 Modification and Withdrawal of Proposals……………………………………………………………..20
 Receiving and Opening the Proposal……………………………………………………………………20
 Evaluation and Contract Award…………………………………………………………………………21
 Oral Presentations……………………………………………………………………………………….24
 Offeror’s References…………………………………………………………………………………….24
 Committee Award Recommendation…………………………………………………………………...25
 Contract Negotiation…………………………………………………………………………………….25
 Notice of Award………………………………………………………………………………………...26
 Contract File…………………………………………………………………………………………….26
 Offeror/Proposer Debriefings…………………………………………………………………………...26




                                                               2
APPENDIX………………………………………………………………………………………………..28
  Appendix A – Evaluation Committee Approval Memo for projects not to exceed $50,000……………...30
  Appendix B – Evaluation Committee Approval Memo for projects in excess of $50,000………………..31
  Appendix C – Sample Scoring Matrices………………………………………………………………..32
  Appendix D – Example Award Recommendation Memo………………………………….……………..34
  Appendix E – RFP/Q Solicitation Preparation Checklist…………………………………………………..37
  Appendix F – Confidentiality Agreement and Conflict of Interest Form ……………………………..39




                                              3
I N T R O D U C T I O N   T O   T H E   R F P



INTRODUCTION TO THE RFP

The Requests for Proposals (RFP) process differs from the traditional Invitation to Bid (ITB) process in
some important ways. The ITB is the basic method for procuring supplies or services with a contract value
of $50,000 or more. Generally, when the City uses the ITB process, the City will award the contract to the
vendor that meets all of the City’s bid requirements and offers the lowest price.

The RFP process permits the City to weigh the relative merits of proposals submitted by competing
vendors. The City awards the contract to the vendor submitting the most advantageous proposal, taking
into consideration the proposals’ relative merits based on evaluation factors and prices. Unlike the ITB
process, the purpose of the RFP process is not necessarily to yield the cheapest price, but rather to identify
the Offeror that provides the City with the most advantageous combination of price and other factors as
well.

The RFP process is used primarily for the procurement of professional services, non-standard services, and
specialized products or supplies. In some cases, it is appropriate to use an RFP process for construction
and supplies.

A definition of professional services, non-standard services, specialized products or supplies is provided
below:

       Professional services are those personal services which involve extended analysis, expression of
        opinion, exercise of discretion and independent judgment in their performance, and an advanced
        specialized type of knowledge, expertise or training customarily acquired by either a prolonged
        course of study or equivalent experience in the field. The performance of professional services may
        require a license, official certification or authorization by the state.

       Nonstandard services are those personal services which involve unique or unusual circumstances,
        requiring a procurement and oversight process different from competitive bidding. Depending on
        the circumstances, examples of nonstandard services may include concession or revenue-
        generating agreements, services subject to the managed competition process, and certain on-going
        social services.

       Specialized products or supplies are items needed to provide a solution to highly complex
        operations, such as water treatment processes. These items cannot be clearly defined within routine
        specifications.


The Purpose of this Manual
The purpose of this manual is to provide guidelines for the use of the competitive RFP in lieu of
competitive Invitation to Bid (ITB). This manual will assist users in understanding the City’s RFP process
and to provide a consistent format in the way RFPs are written by all City Departments, reducing the
development, editing time and likelihood of errors while increasing efficiencies. Consequently, users
should contact a Buyer in the Purchasing Division who will also provide professional advice as to whether
an RFP or ITB is the correct procurement method.
I N T R O D U C T I O N   T O   T H E   R F P


Purchasing Authority
The City’s authority to utilize the Requests for Proposals (RFPs), Requests for Qualifications (RFQs), and
Requests for Information (RFI) procurement processes is derived from the Cincinnati Municipal Code
(CMC) via Section 321-19 and 321-51 through 321-69. Furthermore, Administrative Regulations No. 23
and 62, issued by the City Manager, pursuant to his authority as chief executive officer of the City of
Cincinnati, regulate the use of the RFP procurement process. The Chief Procurement Officer is charged by
both the CMC and the City Manager with promulgating the rules and procedures that govern the RFP,
RFQ, and RFI procurement processes.

Copies of the aforementioned municipal codes and administrative regulations are available on the City
intranet and internet sites or upon request to the Purchasing Division.


Circumventing Procurement Laws
City procurements are governed by state and federal law, as well as the City Municipal Code. There are
criminal penalties associated with attempts to avoid compliance with procurement laws. It is important that
City employees follow the procedures provided in this manual and refrain from splitting, separating, or
breaking up purchases with the intent to circumvent procurement laws or policies. Not following these
procedures could hold a public employee personally liable for any illegal purchases which may result in
termination and/or prosecution.


Conflicts of Interest and Contracting Ethics
The competitive nature of the public purchasing arena and the expenditure of significant amounts of public
funds require strong ethical standards at all levels of the purchasing function. Division of Purchasing staff
and City departmental staff face the challenging task of developing good vendor relations and encouraging
vendor competition while avoiding even the appearance of favoritism or other ethical misconduct.

All City employees, but particularly procurement personnel, should avoid conflicts of interest when it
relates to procurement activities. In this regard, City employees may not:

       Participate in or work on a contract knowing that the employee or a member of the employee’s
        immediate family has an actual or potential financial interest in the contract. Such participation
        could include taking action as an employee through decision, approval, disapproval,
        recommendation, giving advice, investigation or similar action in connection with the contracting
        opportunity.
       Solicit or accept anything of value from an actual or potential vendor.
       Be employed by, or agree to work for, a vendor or potential vendor.
       Knowingly disclose confidential information for personal gain.

When an actual or potential violation of any of these standards is discovered, the person involved shall
promptly file a written statement concerning the matter with an appropriate supervisor or with the Division
of Purchasing. The person may also request written instructions and disposition of the matter. If an actual
violation occurs or is not disclosed and remedied, the employee involved may be reprimanded, suspended,
                                                     5
I N T R O D U C T I O N   T O   T H E   R F P


or dismissed. The vendor or potential vendor may be barred from receiving future contracts and have an
existing contract canceled.

In addition to the restrictions on contracting with the City, City employees are prohibited from soliciting,
demanding, accepting or agreeing to accept from another person a gratuity or an offer of employment in
connection with any procurement decision. Similarly, City employees are prohibited from accepting any
payment or offer of employment made by or on behalf of a subcontractor as an inducement for the award
of a subcontract or order. Finally, employees may not knowingly use confidential information for actual or
anticipated personal gain, or for the actual or anticipated gain of any person.


Unfair Competitive Advantages
Fairness and transparency in the procurement process require that Bidders/Offerors competing for a
specific project do not derive a competitive advantage from having provided services related to the
project/contract/work assignment in question. To that end, pursuant to Administrative Regulation No. 62, a
firm, and each of its affiliates, hired to provide services for the preparation or implementation of a project
shall be disqualified from any subsequent procurement solicitation to provide goods, works, or services
resulting from or directly related to the firm’s services for such preparation or implementation, unless an
exception is made by the City Manager in writing.

City Departments shall make available to the Chief Procurement Officer a list of the firms that provided
services for the preparation or implementation of a project prior to the City releasing any bid, RFP, or RFQ
or similar methods of procurement.


Professional and Nonstandard Services Excluded from Procurement
Pursuant to Administrative Regulation No. 23, the following professional services and/or nonstandard
services shall not be subject to the requirements of this manual: unique personal services such as contracts
for expert witness legal services or special/outside counsel as required and directed by the City Solicitor,
or contracts for unique services directed by the City Manager or City Council.


Waiving the Procurement Requirements in this Manual
While an open and fair competitive process in contracting is the rule, there are exceptions where a
department may need to request a waiver of the procurement requirements outlined in this manual.
Reasons necessitating a waiver may include:

    1. The contractor is a sole provider.
    2. An emergency situation exists.
    3. It is in the Best Interest of the City.

For items #1 and #2, the department should contact their purchasing liaison or dedicated buyer for
assistance in following the established City processes for these situations.


                                                      6
I N T R O D U C T I O N   T O   T H E   R F P


For item #3, the department needs to request a formal waiver of the requirements set forth in
Administrative Regulation No. 23 and this manual. The Chief Procurement Officer may approve a waiver
of competition for contracts estimated at or below $50,000. For contracts that exceed $50,000 as a single
contract or as multiple contracts for the same services within 12 consecutive months, the waiver of
competition shall be reviewed by the Chief Procurement Officer and submitted to the City Manager for
approval.

Noncompetitive purchases for the City are an exception and must be strictly controlled and carefully
documented. It is also important to remember that negotiation should be conducted before agreeing to the
purchase because the lack of competition may lead a vendor to charge unreasonably high prices.


Determining Whether RFI, RFP, or RFQ is Appropriate
The choice of which procurement document to use – Request for Information (RFI), Request for Proposal
(RFP), or Request for Qualifications (RFQ) – depends on the desired outcome or what is needed by the
agency: is it information, is it a solution to a problem, or is the agency looking for a qualified Offeror to
provide a professional service?

       Request for Information (RFI) - A RFI does not result in a contract. With an RFI, the Buyer
        solicits feedback from suppliers and may re-open or re-issue a procurement opportunity at a later
        day. The goal of the RFI process is to obtain more specific information that will help a City
        department clearly define its “Scope of Services” statement. An RFI should not be used when an
        RFP or RFQ would be more appropriate. If in doubt, consult with the Purchasing Division. The
        RFI process is open and public. The use of this process will not directly result in a contract;
        however, this process may provide a Department with sufficient information to issue a subsequent
        RFP or RFQ or identify potential Offerors in the market to compete in a subsequent procurement
        solicitation.

       Request for Proposal (RFP) - An RFP is generally used where it is not best to select a vendor
        solely on the lowest price. The goal of the RFP process is to identify the Offeror that provides the
        most advantageous proposal to design, plan, or complete a project or task. The RFP process may be
        used alone or as a two-step process with an RFI or RFQ process preceding it. RFPs when used as
        the second step in the RFQ process do not require publication or other announcement. One or more
        contract award can be made pursuant to an RFP.

       Request for Qualifications (RFQ) - An RFQ is a solicitation document requesting that vendors
        submit a statement of qualifications to demonstrate their expertise in response to the scope of
        services required. Typically, pricing is not a major criterion for award in an RFQ process. In some
        cases, pricing may not even be discussed until negotiating with the selected Offeror. The goal of
        the RFQ process is to identify one or more qualified Offerors in specific disciplines. For two-step
        procurements (e.g., Design-Build and Construction Manager At-Risk), a specific RFP may be
        prepared and distributed directly to all appropriate Offerors that were short-listed after participating
        in an RFQ process. One or more contract award can be made pursuant to an RFQ.




                                                       7
W H A T   G O E S   I N T O   A   R F P   P R O C E S S ?



WHAT GOES INTO A RFP PROCESS?

Note: “Is There Already a Contract Available?” - Before starting the process of formulating an RFP, contact
your purchasing liaison or dedicated department buyer to inquire if an existing contract is available to satisfy
your needs. Prior to proceeding with a RFQ or RFP, Departments are required to fill out an RFP/Q Solicitation
Preparation Checklist. This checklist will provide the Purchasing Division with information necessary to
prepare a procurement summary to present the project to the City Manager for approval at the weekly
Procurement Review Committee meeting. A copy of the checklist can be found in Appendix E to this manual.


When procuring via an RFP, the department must specify all of the factors, including price (if applicable),
that it will consider in determining which proposal is the most advantageous to the City. Subjective as well
as objective (measurable) criteria may be used to evaluate and select contractors. In most cases, the
element of cost should always be a significant consideration when evaluating proposals.

The RFP process is complex and may take longer than a simple competitive bid selection. Generally, the
RFP process includes the following steps:

         Department identifies the need;
         Purchasing Division advises Department of process;
         Department submits goal information sheet to DEI for projects over $50,000;
         Evaluation Committee is proposed to the Chief Procurement Officer or the City Manager for
          projects over $50,000;
         Purchasing Division seeks City Manager approval of project if over $50,000;
         Draft RFP is finalized;
         Public advertisement of RFP (at least two weeks);
         Non-mandatory Pre-proposal meeting or Site Visit held (optional);
         Submission of written proposals by Offerors;
         Evaluation of written proposals by the City;
         Oral presentations from selected Offerors (optional);
         Recommendation to the Chief Procurement Officer and City Manager of one or more proposals as
          most advantageous to the City;
         Contract negotiations with one or more Offerors; and
         Execution of contract by the City Manager.


RFP Template
Please contact Purchasing to obtain the RFP Template. The template is constantly evolving with the
procurement procedures of the City and is often revised to meet the changing needs of the Departments.
Be sure to use the most up-to-date template each time you begin to draft a new RFP. Do not use old
templates. The Purchasing Division will not publish or process RFPs utilizing outdated templates.




                                                            8
W H A T   G O E S   I N T O   A   R F P   P R O C E S S ?


The RFP Template provides the skeletal components for writing an RFP. Each RFP is written to the
specific requirements of the Department for its need at the particular time, thus making each one unique.
The RFP Template is not all inclusive of every procurement need of the City. The type of professional
services, non-standard services, specialized products or supplies, or construction to be procured will
usually determine what basic components to keep and to omit when writing an RFP. In addition, there may
be additional language to include in the RFP that is not in the standard RFP Template. The purpose of this
template is to display and assist the agencies with the format and components of an actual RFP.

If you have any questions concerning the RFP Template, refer to this manual. If further clarification is
needed, please contact your purchasing liaison or dedicated buyer.


Scope of Services
One of the most important parts of any RFP is the Scope of Services/Specifications, which contains the
technical specifications, deliverables and performance requirements of the goods and services sought by
the City.

The Scope of Services must provide a general description of the following:

         A description of the services/products to be provided;
         Specified drawings/schematics, diagrams, if any;
         Pricing methods—unit pricing, time & materials, lump sum, etc.;
         Schedule—when deliverables are required;
         Level of experience—the level of experience in the type of work to be performed;
         Qualifications—the minimum qualifications required from proposer.

The purpose of writing a Scope of Services is to assure that the proposers/Offerors have clear
understanding on what the City wants them to deliver. For this reason, the Scope of Services should
specify the performance requirements of the deliverables being requested, not merely describe them.
Review of the Scope of Services in the case of a non-routine procurement, such as a custom software
program, is advisable.

The Scope of Services will more than likely be incorporated into the resultant contract. Therefore, it
should clearly encompass all elements of the project for the desired results, including the criteria,
standards, and/or measure of the work. A contract can only be binding to the degree that the City has
clearly defined the responsibilities of the Offeror. Many conflicts can be prevented “up front” by carefully
defining the work to be completed by the Offeror. The City can more easily monitor the Offeror’s
performance when schedules and tasks are clearly defined and specified.


Note: Occasionally, City departments may enlist a third party to aid in the development of the Scope of
Services. As a general rule, such third parties are ineligible to submit proposals for RFPs or RFQs for
which they assisted the development of the Scope of Services. City Departments shall make available to the
Chief Procurement Officer a list of the firms that aided in the preparation of an RFP or RFQ prior to the
issuance of the RFP or RFQ.


                                                            9
W H A T   G O E S   I N T O   A   R F P   P R O C E S S ?



Structuring the RFP
The RFP document consists of many sections. The sections listed below attempt to cover the key elements
included in any RFP issued by the City of Cincinnati, but is not intended to be a representation of all the
sections included in the RFP document. The designated City representative with the consultation of a
Buyer in the Purchasing Division may delete, add or reorganize these sections to meet the requirements of
the particular procurement need:

         Cover Page – The cover page specifically lists the title of the RFP, RFP number, RFP due date,
          RFP issue date, assigned Buyer’s contact information, acceptance place, and instructions on how a
          prospective Offeror may register or seek M/WBE or SBE certification with the City.

         Introduction of the RFP – This three- to four-sentence paragraph should be limited to a simple
          statement summarizing the action the City intends to accomplish. This statement immediately helps
          the Offeror to make a judgment as to whether the firm is in a position to undertake the project.

          For example: “The City of Cincinnati, Ohio, (hereinafter referred to as “City”) is issuing this
          Request for Proposals (hereinafter “RFP”) pursuant to the provisions of the Cincinnati Municipal
          Code (CMC), Chapter 321 and City Manager Administrative Regulation 23 for Professional
          Services, from parties, (hereinafter “Offerors”). The Offeror shall provide (general statement of
          services required (reason why you’re issuing the RFP))”

         General Background Information – Background information should include only information
          judged necessary to help proposers understand the requirements. A brief narrative describing the
          department in need of the services and the general background and historical events leading up to
          the present need may be appropriate.

         Scope of Services – The Scope of Services section of an RFP or RFQ may be constructed by
          specifying:
             o What the department wants (right materials/services and right quality);
             o How many or how much the department wants (right quantity);
             o When the department wants what it needs (right time); and
             o Where the department wants to receive what it wants (right place).

         Offeror Qualifications – This section states the minimum qualifications the City requires from
          Offerors/proposers. Qualifications may include, but is not limited to the following:
             o Firm experience in the field and/or with similar projects to the City’s;
             o Qualifications of key personnel to be assigned to the City project;
             o Certificates or licenses (if required);
             o Proximity of a firm’s office to the City;
             o Company and key personnel references; and
             o Financial capacity.

         RFP Process Timetable – This section establishes the timetable for each RFP milestone. Below
          are some examples of what to include:
              o RFP release or issue date;


                                                            10
W H A T    G O E S    I N T O   A   R F P   P R O C E S S ?


              o      Deadline for Offerors to submit written questions or request clarification;
              o      Pre-proposal meeting;
              o      Proposal submission date and time;
              o      Oral presentations or interview;
              o      Start of field evaluations;
              o      Award to most advantageous Offeror or Offerors.

         Questions Concerning the RFP – This section addresses how questions concerning the RFP will
          be handled and who is the authorized point of contact for the RFP.

         Pre-proposal Meeting (optional) – This section addresses the date, time, and location of the pre-
          proposal meeting if the department elects to have one. The purpose of the meeting is to help
          prospective Offerors understand of the requirements, provisions of the RFP.

         RFP Submission Requirements – This section should specify to the Offerors where to submit,
          how to submit, the number of originals, copies, and electronic copies of the proposal and any other
          specifics with respect to submitting the proposal in response to the RFP.

         Selection Process and Award Criteria – “Most Advantageous” criteria should be used in the
          evaluation section of an RFP to state the basis of award for the proposal and to provide guidance to
          the proposer about how proposals will be evaluated. Only those items included in the RFP should
          be applied in evaluating proposals. The City cannot base award on criteria not presented to
          Offerors in the solicitation document.

          The RFP should specify that only the information provided with the proposal, subsequent written
          clarifications provided in writing to all interested parties and oral presentations (if applicable) will
          be used in the evaluation process and award determination. The award criteria section must
          describe the areas to be evaluated. The City may provide related weights given or listed in order of
          importance of each evaluation criteria.

         Process for Entering into an Agreement – This section describes the process for award and
          entering into an agreement with the most advantageous Offeror or Offerors.

         Addenda and Changes to RFP – This section explains how changes or addenda to the RFP will
          be handled and that it is the Offerors’ responsibility to monitor for addenda and/or corrections to
          the RFP.

         Proposed Contract Term – The expected contract period or expected completion date is stated
          here along with any renewal options.

         Proposal Content and Form – This section lists what should be included in the proposal response
          and the format for submission.

         Standard City Contract Terms and Conditions – This section of the RFP is designed primarily
          for those contract clauses that are not directly related to the Scope of Services, but which are
          needed to:
              o Minimize the risk to the City of Cincinnati;
                                                              11
W H A T    G O E S   I N T O   A   R F P   P R O C E S S ?


              o Ensure that the City receives what it has bargained for; and
              o Ensure clarity of the rights and remedies available to the City of Cincinnati, as well as the
                eventual contractor.

          Such clauses may amend or expand the standard boilerplate clauses contained in the RFP
          depending on the user department requirements.

          The standard City contract terms and conditions are provided in the RFP to allow Offerors the
          chance to review and make any exceptions in consideration to contract negotiations. Unless
          otherwise stated by the Offeror in response to the RFP, the Offeror agrees to the Contract Terms
          and Conditions of the RFP, which later will become part of the negotiated contract.

         M/WBE and SBE Requirements – This section of the RFP describes the economic inclusion
          program and, if any, subcontracting goals that apply to the specific project.

         EEO requirements – This section describes the Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) Program
          requirements which apply to City contracts that exceed $5,000 in value (CMC Chapter 325).

         Attachments and Forms – This section incorporates those additional forms necessary for the
          proposal process, such as pricing, proposed implementation plan, or resume forms. It may also be
          used to incorporate information or requirements related to the Scope of Services. Examples are:
          installation site plans, statistical data, special regulations, City department organizational charts,
          equipment layout, etc.


Appointing an Evaluation/Selection Committee1
The evaluation committee should be composed of a minimum of three individuals who are stakeholders in
the final product or service, and/or individuals who have the necessary technical or program expertise.
When a City department director proposes individuals to the Chief Procurement Officer and the City
Manager to form an evaluation committee for a particular procurement, he or she should do so with the
following general factors in mind:

         The relevance of the individual’s education and experience to the subject matter of the solicitation;
         The possibility that a superior could directly or indirectly influence the manner in which a
          subordinate may vote;
         The amount of time the individual would potentially be able to dedicate to the task relative to the
          amount of time needed to complete it; and
         The possibility of any conflicts of interest with respect to the individual’s relationship to potential
          vendors. The individual must have the ability to maintain total impartiality throughout the selection
          process, as well as to focus on what is most advantageous for the City and not merely his or her
          own department or individual perspectives.



1 See Appendix A for an example of an evaluation committee memo for projects not to exceed $50,000. See Appendix B for an example of an

evaluation committee memo for projects in excess of $50,000.

                                                                    12
W H A T   G O E S   I N T O   A   R F P   P R O C E S S ?


The department director must select an individual on the evaluation committee to serve as the chairperson.
The Chairperson duties shall include the following:

   1. Being the Purchasing Division’s point of contact with respect to the RFP;
   2. Responsibility for maintaining the integrity of the overall evaluation process;
   3. Scheduling all committee meetings;
   4. Documenting members’ scoring and ranking information;
   5. Collecting evaluation committee members’ written notes and submitting it into the Purchasing
      Division;
   6. Communicating the Committee’s recommendation(s) to the Chief Procurement Officer and, if
      applicable, the City Manager; and
   7. Assisting the Buyer of record to respond to a vendor’s request for debrief.

Only City employees should serve as voting members on evaluation committees, unless an exception is
made by the City Manager in writing. Consultants may serve as technical advisors to the evaluation.

The Chief Procurement Officer approves members of evaluation committees for contracts estimated at or
below $50,000. For contracts that exceed $50,000 as a single contract or as multiple contracts for the same
services within 12 consecutive months, the members of the evaluation committee recommendation shall be
reviewed by the Chief Procurement Officer and submitted to the City Manager for approval.

Note: There is no restriction as to how many people the department may nominate to the evaluation
committee; however, the recommendation is to enlist three to five individuals possessing expertise for the
service/product being acquired. A cross-functional/departmental list of individuals who will work on the
project in different ways is preferred. Limiting the number of team members will make the coordination of
activities run more smoothly and help ensure the security and integrity of the processes.


Evaluation Committee Members
Serving as a member of an evaluation committee means that an individual will be entrusted with a great
deal of responsibility on behalf of the City of Cincinnati to conscientiously evaluate the submitted
proposals within the guidelines identified below. Evaluation committee members are frequently required
to devote considerable time reading proposals, making site visits, meeting to discuss proposals with other
evaluators, and engaging vendors in oral discussions. Acceptance of an invitation to serve on an evaluation
committee should be construed as a commitment, within reasonable limits, to expend the time necessary to
complete the entire process and to perform a thorough evaluation.


Duties and Responsibilities of Evaluation Committee Members
Evaluation committee members must perform their evaluations to the best of their abilities without
prejudice or bias. They must keep all information contained in proposals or obtained during the evaluation
process confidential, to the extent allowed by law. Furthermore, they must render a fair and impartial
evaluation based exclusively upon:



                                                            13
W H A T   G O E S   I N T O   A   R F P   P R O C E S S ?


         The evaluation criteria contained in the RFP;
         The contents of the vendors’ proposal;
         Information gained from clarification of proposals;
         Oral presentations;
         Discussions with vendors; or
         Other legitimate sources of reference.

All members of the committee are required to complete a Confidentiality Agreement and Conflict of
Interest Form. The Confidentiality Agreement shall be completed prior to receipt of the proposals.
Whereas, the Conflict of Interest Form shall be completed after the evaluation committee is notified of the
firms that have submitted a proposal in response to the solicitation. See Appendix F for a copy of the
forms.

If, upon receipt of the vendors’ proposals, committee members find that a conflict of interest may exist,
they should report it on the Conflict of Interest Form and immediately forward it to the Buyer of record. If
a situation arises where it is necessary for a committee member to recuse him- or herself, the Chief
Procurement Officer will determine if that person must be replaced or if the committee may proceed with
the remaining members to complete the evaluation and make a recommendation.


Committee Meetings
Committee members are to attend all meetings of the committee. At the first committee meeting a timeline
is typically established for the entire evaluation. This should include the number and dates of future
meetings, if and when oral presentations will be held, and where the meetings will take place. It is the
responsibility of the individual members to arrange their work schedules to allow for full and complete
participation.

Committee members are encouraged to openly discuss their findings on each proposal at the scheduled
evaluation committee meetings. They should also freely discuss factors that might influence their
evaluations, such as previous experience with a vendor. Committee members should seek clarification
from the Buyer of record as to whether factors that influenced them are proper to use or might be
inappropriate.


Understanding Solicitation Documents
Committee members must read the RFP and acquaint themselves with the nature of the requested goods or
services. If a committee member needs to make notations, he or she must preserve the notes. Any written
comments become a permanent part of the documentation of the procurement. The Offerors’ response to
the RFP – together with evaluator’s notes – may be made available to any member of the public who
makes a public records request after the completion of the procurement process. Therefore, notes should
be factual, non-inflammatory and should contain neither offensive nor inappropriate remarks. Any
questions should be directed to the Buyer of record or to the chairperson of the committee.

Notes are to be consistent with the final overall ranking of all vendors. There should be a note for each
significant area in which a vendor is either weak or strong.
                                                            14
W H A T   G O E S   I N T O   A   R F P   P R O C E S S ?


Note: Information submitted by an Offeror in response to a RFP or RFQ to the City becomes a public
record subject to inspection and copying only after the contract is awarded.

M/WBE and SBE Goal Setting
Inclusion of Minority and Women Business Enterprises (M/WBE) (CMC Chapter 324) and/or Small
Business Enterprises (SBE) (CMC Chapter 323) shall be generated to the maximum extent practicable on
all City RFPs.

Prior to issuing an RFP or RFQ, the total cost of which is estimated to be $50,000 or more, the contracting
agency must submit either a Goal Information Sheet or a Waiver Request to the Department of Economic
Inclusion (DEl) for an M/WBE participation goal determination. M/WBE subcontracting goals are
calculated based on an availability analysis based on the ratio of certified M/WBE firms to total available
firms. In the event that DEI determines that M/WBE subcontracting goals will not apply to an RFP or
RFQ, the SBE subcontracting goal of 15% (or 30% for construction) will apply on projects of $100,000 or
more, unless waived or reduced. All M/WBE or SBE Waiver Requests shall be reviewed by the Director
of DEI and submitted to the City Manager for approval.

Economic inclusion shall be one of the selection and award criteria for determining whether a proposal in
response to an RFP or RFQ is most advantageous to the City, unless waived by DEI and the City Manager.

M/WBEs and SBEs that meet Small Local Business Enterprise (SLBE) or Emerging Local Business
Enterprise (ELBE) requirements may be given additional preference points in the evaluation of their
responses to an RFP or RFQ. A synopsis of how the preference points may be applied is provided below:

         An MBE firm owned by African American(s), Asian American(s), Hispanic American(s) or non-
          minority WBE that submits a response to an RFP or RFQ for a professional services contract may
          be awarded one (1) to ten (10) evaluation preference points.
         An ELBE firm that submits a response to an RFP or RFQ for a professional services contract may
          be awarded one (1) to ten (10) evaluation preference points for contracts valued between
          $50,000.00 and $100,000.00.
         An SLBE firm that submits a response to an RFP or RFQ for a professional services contract may
          be awarded one (1) to ten (10) evaluation preference points for contracts valued between
          $100,000.00 and $250,000.00.


Communications with Proposers
Starting on the date a solicitation is issued and expiring on the date the contract is awarded, actual and
prospective Offerors/Proposers (including their representatives or persons acting on their behalf) are
prohibited from contacting members of City Council or any City employees other than the Buyer of record
in any manner regarding the issued RFP or RFQ. Actual and prospective respondents or bidders include
those respondents or bidders who have received notice that they have not been chosen as finalists for any
solicitation. Actual and prospective Offerors/Proposers (including their representatives or persons acting
on their behalf) are expressly prohibited from offering, presenting or promising gratuities, favors, or
anything of value to any member of an evaluation committee or any appointed or elected official or
employee of the City of Cincinnati, their families or staff members.

                                                            15
W H A T      G O E S    I N T O   A   R F P   P R O C E S S ?


Notwithstanding the foregoing, the following types of communication only are exempt and shall be
permitted by Offerors/Proposers during an open procurement process:

       1. Actual and prospective Offerors/Proposers’ formal response to the RFP;
       2. Communications publically made during the official pre-bid conference;
       3. Written requests for clarification during the period officially designated for such purpose by the
          Buyer; and
       4. Communications during an oral interview, scheduled at the request of and for the benefit of the
          City’s evaluation committee, if any.

During the no contact period, the Buyer of record shall serve as the sole point of contact for any actual or
prospective respondents. Any contact other than with the Buyer of record during the no contact period may
be justification for rejection of the violator’s proposal.


The Scoring Matrix2
Collectively, the evaluation committee will determine how the evaluation of the proposal should be
conducted and the method for selecting the most advantageous Offeror. A scoring matrix is used by the
evaluation team to score the individual responses based on the evaluation criteria defined in the solicitation
(i.e., RFP or RFQ) document. The matrix becomes the scoring worksheet to be completed by each
evaluation team member. The individual scoring worksheet will be summarized and averaged for the
Committee as a whole.

The matrix should be completed prior to publishing the solicitation document because departments may
see that additions or revisions are needed when developing the scoring matrix. If time does not permit the
scoring matrix to be completed prior to publication, then the matrix must be completed prior to the
opening and review of the proposals. At a minimum, the scoring matrix must include the weight assigned
to each criterion.

The RFP must advise the proposers of the evaluation criteria, which reflects the essential qualities or
performance requirements necessary to achieve the objectives of the contract and allow the evaluation
team to fairly evaluate proposals. The evaluation criteria may take a variety of sources of information into
consideration such as the written response, the oral presentation, and conformance to RFP requirements,
experience, expertise, qualifications, proposed strategy and/or equipment. Specific portions of the required
response should directly relate to the evaluation criteria. For example, if respondents will be evaluated on
past performance, consider including a corresponding questionnaire.

To ensure fairness in evaluation, the evaluation criteria should reflect only those requirements specified in
the RFP. The RFP should clearly state the consequences of failing to meet these requirements, such as
being disqualified from the RFP process.

Criteria not included in the RFP may not be used in the selection or ranking of a proposal. For example, if
respondents receive additional points for possessing a national accreditation, that criterion must be
included in the RFP so that proposers know there is an opportunity to score higher by providing these

2   See Appendix C for examples of scoring matrices.

                                                                16
W H A T   G O E S   I N T O   A   R F P   P R O C E S S ?


options. Likewise, if this information is not requested in the RFP, proposers who neglect to offer these
options cannot be penalized.

When determining the evaluation criteria, the team should also consider the proposal submission
requirements associated with each criterion. In the sample criteria listed below, financial stability is a
criterion on which the proposers will be evaluated. What information needs to be included in the response
in order to effectively evaluate a proposer’s financial information, such as audited financial statements,
Dunn and Bradstreet numbers, performance standards, etc.? Other criteria may include experience, skills,
qualifications of company staff, years in business, years of staff experience, certified or licensed
employees, or historical performance of similar-sized projects.

The following list of weighted criteria is an example only. Weights are a numerical measurement assigned
to a criterion to express its relative importance or authority accorded in scoring.

                     Sample Evaluation Criteria                 Sample Weight
                     Cost                                       30%
                     Proposed services, including work plan and 30%
                     methodology
                     Experience, Expertise, Qualifications of 20%
                     Offeror and Offeror’s Staff
                     M/WBE or SBE Participation                 15%
                     Financial Capacity of Offeror              5%

Cost is typically the most significant evaluation factor. However, there are procurements in which the
skills and experience of the contractor or other factors may be more important than cost. For example, if a
consultant has to have a specific set of skills, the department may be willing to pay more for these skills.
The criteria deemed most important by the department should be assigned a higher weight than the other
criteria.


Evaluation of Offerors’ Proposals
An assessment of the proposal itself and the proposer’s ability to perform the prospective contract
successfully should be conducted by the evaluation committee. The evaluation committee reviews the
submitted proposals and then assesses their relative qualities solely on the factors and sub-factors specified
in the RFP. Evaluations may be conducted using any rating method or combination of methods, including
numerical weights and ordinal rankings. The relevant strengths, deficiencies, significant weaknesses, and
risks supporting a proposer’s evaluation are documented on the RFP evaluation matrix. Each RFP
evaluation shall consist of at a minimum the following criteria:

   1. Cost or price evaluation – Normally, competition establishes price reasonableness. Therefore,
      when contracting on a firm-fixed-price or fixed-price with economic price adjustment basis,
      comparison of the proposed prices will usually satisfy the requirement to perform a price analysis;
      therefore, a cost analysis need not be performed.



                                                            17
W H A T   G O E S   I N T O   A   R F P   P R O C E S S ?


          When a cost analysis is required, the evaluation committee should request detailed information to
          understand how an Offeror arrived at their quoted price. At this stage, price is considered an
          estimate and committee members must understand how the Offeror arrived at it before agreeing to
          the figures. Be certain the proposing Offeror’s analysis of the Scope of Service is the same as
          intended by the Evaluation Committee, and the estimate has been prepared based on that scope. If
          the analysis by the Offeror is less than intended by the proposal, the estimate can be low. If the
          analysis included factors not contemplated by the proposal, the estimate could be high.

          Essentials of cost should be clearly identified before a price is set for any work or labor on
          contracts. For example, in the RFP the City may require the Offeror to submit the following:

             1. The estimated direct labor cost and material costs to perform the work.
             2. The overhead burden or indirect operational costs that the Offeror charges for the work.

          Offerors should identify the number and types of personnel considered necessary to perform the
          Scope of Services in the negotiations (an employee classification and wage scale), including the
          amount of work by each type of employee (hours).

          Most Offerors establish an overhead rate from accounting records applicable to the normal
          operation of the Offeror, usually expressed in terms of a percent of direct labor charges. A
          universal percentage cannot be established, since each Offeror has its own overhead rate. The
          analysis should recognize that overhead includes taxes, fringes, insurance costs, and other items.

          Review and/or verify all of the above items in completing a price analysis. City staff familiar with
          the Scope of Services delineated in the RFP should be able to determine whether the amounts of
          time and the pay rates of the types of employees to complete the work are appropriate. Before an
          agreement is reached, questions the staff may have regarding price should be resolved. Consider
          using the following data:
               Customary or standard pay rates for that area;
               Overhead cost levels on comparable offers and analysis of items included as overhead;
               Former contracts including wage rates, overhead, and profit in those contracts;
               Current staff experience in contracting for similar work; and
               Reasonable price with all factors considered.

   2. Experience, Expertise and Qualifications – Experience, expertise and qualifications are one
      indicator of an Offeror’s ability to perform a contract successfully. The RFP evaluation committee
      reviews and determines the relevance of Offeror’s experience, expertise and qualifications,
      including the source of the information, context of the data, and general trends in the Offeror’s past
      performance. The committee may also take into account past performance information, key
      personnel who have relevant experience or subcontractors that will perform major or critical
      aspects of the contract when such information is relevant to the procurement.

   3. Proposed Strategy or Operation Plan – The proposed strategy or operation plan reflects those
      activities and services that are critical to the successful delivery or implementation to address the
      desired needs of the City. The proposed strategy or operation plan shall provide the detailed
      attributes – such as project timeline, deliverables, functionality, implementation, software,
      equipment, training, etc. – that thoroughly explain the proposer’s intent or solution to meet the

                                                            18
W H A T   G O E S   I N T O   A   R F P   P R O C E S S ?


          City’s overall objectives. This proposed strategy or operation plan should allow the evaluation
          team to understand the proposer’s capability and proposed solutions or service level intentions.


Pre-Proposal Meetings or Site Visits
Pre-proposal meetings with interested parties are optional at the choice of the Buyer and the department
for which the services are to be provided. The meetings serve the purpose of:

         Reviewing the requirements of the RFP;
         Facilitating a clear understanding; and
         Promoting competition.

The pre-proposal meeting is a meeting of the prospective proposers/Offerors, the Buyer, and the
department’s technical representative(s). The RFP should specify a reasonable location and conference
time to maximize attendance. Generally, it is recommended that attendance of pre-proposal meetings not
be a mandatory requirement of the RFP.

Some projects necessitate a site visit by proposers, such as those with installation requirements. The RFP
should specify the location and time of site visit, as well as point of contact. Similar to pre-proposal
meetings, it is recommended that attendance of site visits not be a mandatory requirement.

Pre-proposal meetings and site visits may result in later modifications to the RFP if there are conditions of
which the City may have been unaware at the time the RFP was issued. In this event, a correction or
addendum is composed by the Buyer of record in collaboration with the end-user and then posted publicly
prior to the RFP closing date. Those attending the meeting are advised that only written modifications
issued by the City are considered alterations to the RFP.


Preparing for a Pre-Proposal Meeting
A representative of the end-user City department should serve as a chairperson during the pre-proposal
meeting. The Buyer is primarily responsible for addressing procurement issues related to the purchasing
process, including the RFP evaluation and award. The department should have representatives present to
answer technical and site-specific questions. An attendance roster is established at each conference to
collect the attendees’ names, name of the represented company, and contact information (including e-mail
addresses).

The following is a guideline of an agenda for a pre-proposal meeting:

   1. Opening – After calling the conference to order, the City department representative introduces
      him/herself, covers basic housekeeping rules, lays out the agenda and has everyone introduce
      themselves.

   2. Recording – The City department representative announces administrative information regarding
      any audio or videotaping of the conference. In addition, attendees are reminded that only a written
      change via an addendum or correction legally binds the RFP.

                                                            19
W H A T    G O E S   I N T O   A   R F P   P R O C E S S ?


          Note – It is recommended that the pre-proposal conferences be recorded (or detailed notes taken).
          The recording is a ready reference and checklist if there is a need to publish addenda.

   3. RFP Overview and Review – The Buyer of record will cover the basic information concerning the
      RFP procurement process. A City department representative will give an overview of the
      project/scope of work. Review of the RFP itself serves as the focus for the conference. Proposers
      should be provided an opportunity to ask questions.

   4. Recap and Closing – The City department representative summarizes the key points of the
      conference.

Simple questions should be answered immediately at meeting. Other more technical questions may not be
easily answerable. In that event, the City should only provide an answer that will withstand rigorous
scrutiny after the conference. All relevant questions or suggestions from proposers pertaining to the RFP
must be addressed in the subsequent correction or addendum that should be issued in a timely manner
prior to proposal submission due date. No decision on complicated or sensitive matters should be made in
haste at the pre-proposal meeting. Further research may be necessary to provide the correct answer.


Addenda to the Requests for Proposals
Prior to issuing an addendum, the Buyer must consider the time remaining until the RFP opening date. If
additional time is needed for the proposer to respond, an addendum should be issued to extend the due date
of the RFP. If an addendum that makes substantive changes to the RFP is necessary and five working days
or less remain before the RFP opening date, the deadline for responding to the RFP should be extended.


Modification and Withdrawal of Proposals
Proposals can be modified and/or withdrawn at any time, if requested in writing, prior to the deadline date
stated in the solicitation document, at which time proposals will be considered firm and become the
property of the City and will not be returned.


Receiving and Opening the Proposal
The date, time and place for receiving the proposals are set out in the RFP document. The proposal will be
considered only if received:

         Before the closing date and time, and
         At the right place designated for receipt.

Departments should allow realistic time frames for this process. The proposal due date is assigned based
on the complexity of the RFP. In general, a 30- to 60-day solicitation is considered standard. If a site visit
or a pre-proposal meeting is required, additional time should be allowed. These considerations are also
weighed against the urgency of the department’s need for the goods or services sought in the RFP.


                                                             20
W H A T   G O E S   I N T O   A   R F P   P R O C E S S ?


After the proposal is received, the Buyer of record verifies the proposals for basic responsiveness of the
following:

         Completion of all proposal requirements;
         Execution of offer; and
         Mandatory documents.

Only those proposals that are submitted at the designated place of acceptance prior to the closing date and
time and deemed responsive based on the above will be forwarded to the evaluation committee.

The Purchasing Division generally only makes the names available of the firms who have submitted a
proposal in response to a RFP if requested by an interested party. No further information is revealed at that
time, as contents of proposals must remain confidential until date of contract award.


Evaluation and Contract Award
Before the individual evaluations begin, the assigned Buyer and chairperson should meet with the
evaluation committee to distribute non-disclosure forms, matrices, and proposals and to brief the
evaluation committee on the following:

   1. The Buyer should explain:
         a. The evaluation process;
         b. Member responsibilities regarding the critical nature of their non-disclosures and the
            integrity of the evaluation process;
         c. That evaluation committee members may communicate with each other about the RFP, but
            that they should not disclose any information about the process to anyone not a part of the
            team;
         d. The evaluation criteria and the scoring process; and
         e. The scoring matrix to ensure the team understands how the matrix works and how
            proposals will be evaluated.

   2. The evaluation committee chairperson should establish:
         a. The deadline for completion of evaluations, instructing all team members to refer all
             questions during the evaluation process to the Buyer of record;
         b. The tabulation of scores; and
         c. The principle that individual scores may be classified as a matter of public record.

   3. The Buyer should stress the following points with the team:
         a. Conclusions are reached independently but team members may discuss issues with each
            other in arriving at their conclusions.
         b. Experts or Technical Advisors in a specific area may be used to help reach a decision.
            These experts or advisors shall provide factual data only and shall not tell committee
            members how to evaluate.
         c. Each proposal should be evaluated individually against the requirements of the RFP.
         d. Members may ask questions of the Offerors to get clarification with respect to the proposals
            if they are unable to find information, do not understand information in a proposal, or

                                                            21
W H A T   G O E S   I N T O   A   R F P   P R O C E S S ?


                require technical assistance from other members. However, all questions should be
                coordinated through the Buyer.
             e. After the technical evaluations are completed, all evaluation matrices must be turned in to
                the Buyer.


          Team Scoring and Proposal Evaluation

          Step 1. The evaluation committee’s first task is to eliminate all proposals that are not responsive to
          the RFP. Non-responsiveness includes failure to meet basic requirements or significant deviations
          from the terms of the RFP, such as not providing applicable licenses or certifications or not
          providing critical information that was requested in the RFP. Any bid that modifies or fails to
          conform to the essential requirements or specifications of the solicitation shall be considered non-
          responsive and categorized as unacceptable.

          Step 2. Once the non-responsive proposals have been eliminated, the team should conduct an
          independent evaluation. In this phase, committee members should strive to evaluate each proposal
          by identifying both the strengths and weaknesses of each proposal. Each committee member shall
          score each proposal accordingly and independently from other committee members’ influence.
          Finally, the committee member will need to document any questions, concerns or pertinent
          information that they need to discuss with the evaluation team after it reconvenes to discuss the
          independent scores.

          Step 3. Once the independent evaluations have been completed, committee members are
          encouraged to openly discuss their findings on each proposal at the scheduled evaluation
          committee meetings. They should also freely discuss factors that might influence their evaluations,
          such as previous experience with a vendor. Committee members should seek clarification from the
          Buyer of record as to whether factors that influenced them are proper to use or might be
          inappropriate. Finally, the evaluation team scores are tabulated and averaged for the committee as a
          whole to determine the highest ranked proposals. The committee members may choose to
          determine one or more proposals as most advantageous to the City here or they may opt to identify
          a shortlist of Offerors from the highest ranked proposals to participate in Step 4a and/or 4b
          (below).

          Step 4a (optional). Once the shortlist has been identified, the team may invite potential proposers
          to provide oral presentations to the committee. The duration of such presentations is predetermined
          by the committee and all committee members must attend them, if possible. Members should – to
          the best of their abilities – ask questions regarding parts of proposals needing explanation or
          clarification or regarding those sections of a proposal that may have deficiencies. After the oral
          presentations, the evaluation team scores are tabulated to determine the highest ranked proposals.
          The committee members may choose to determine one or more proposals as most advantageous to
          the City here or they may opt to identify a shortlist of Offerors from the highest ranked proposals to
          participate in Step 4b (below).

          Step 4b (optional). Once the shortlist has been identified, the team may invite shortlisted
          proposers to participate in the next phase of the procurement, such as the second phase of a two
          part procurement where the City issued an RFQ first in order to shortlist firms to participate in a
          subsequent RFP phase (e.g., Design-Build projects) or a field testing phase to test out equipment or
                                                            22
W H A T   G O E S   I N T O   A   R F P   P R O C E S S ?


          proposed solutions. The duration and scope of the field testing phase may be delineated in the
          solicitation document or determined by the committee and communicated to the shortlisted firms
          by the Buyer of record by some other means following the opening of the proposals. For two part
          procurements where an RFP follows an RFQ or RFI, the RFP document will outline the
          requirements of the shortlisted firms. After the conclusion of the field testing or RFP phase that
          follows an RFI or RFQ, the evaluation team scores are tabulated to determine the highest ranked
          proposals. The committee members may choose to determine one or more proposals as most
          advantageous to the City at this time.

          Note: After the scores are tabulated and averaged for the committee as a whole, the evaluation
          committee should identify whether any of the Offerors are M/WBEs or SLBEs or ELBEs that are
          eligible to be given up to ten additional preference points in the evaluation of their responses to an
          RFP or RFQ. If applicable, the ten additional preference points should be added to the respective
          M/WBEs’ or SLBEs’ or ELBEs’ score after the scores are tabulated and averaged.

          Method of Evaluation

          The recommended method for evaluation is to have each committee member conduct an initial
          independent score and then invite all team members back to discuss their findings. This will
          facilitate questions by team members to the Buyer or to the technical experts. While the Buyer and
          technical experts may answer technical questions regarding proposals, they should not give
          personal opinions about a specific proposer. After the proposals are evaluated, the Buyer will
          review the tabulated score sheets and verify the accuracy of calculations. The calculations are then
          entered into the final scoring matrix to be included in the recommendation to award letter to the
          Chief Procurement Officer and the City Manager.

          If it is apparent that one or more team members’ evaluations differ significantly from the majority,
          the team should discuss the discrepancy to ensure the criteria were clear to all members and that
          specific information was not overlooked or misunderstood. Following this discussion, should a
          team member feel that he or she did not understand the criteria, the proposal requirements, or
          simply overlooked information that was included in the proposal, the evaluator (through one’s own
          discretion) may revise his or her evaluation score. The Buyer must be present during these
          discussions to ensure that no team member tries to influence the decision of other members. Under
          no circumstances should any team member attempt to pressure other members to change evaluation
          scores.

          After the initial scores are tabulated, the evaluation committee will determine whether it wishes to
          hear oral presentations, and if so, which proposers/Offerors should be invited to give oral
          presentations. The team must determine how the results of the presentations will affect the total
          evaluation score; they may decide to assign extra points for oral presentations or to establish “oral
          presentation” as a separate factor to be evaluated after the presentations are made. The Buyer
          should notify the proposers who are invited to make oral presentations, making it clear that not all
          proposers have been selected (if appropriate). If there are particular questions the team would like
          to see addressed in the oral presentation, the Buyer should advise proposers of these in advance.




                                                            23
W H A T   G O E S   I N T O   A   R F P   P R O C E S S ?



Oral Presentations
Oral presentations are conducted at the option of the evaluation committee. Oral presentations provide an
opportunity for Offerors to highlight the strengths and unique aspects of their proposal and to provide
answers to questions the City may have regarding the proposal. Demonstrations of product functionality
are recommended when appropriate, such as for information technology procurements or solution-based
procurements. Members should – to the best of their abilities – ask questions regarding parts of proposals
needing explanation or clarification or regarding those sections of a proposal that may have deficiencies.

The duration of such presentations is pre-determined by the committee and all committee members must
attend them, if possible. Oral presentations may be restricted to only those Offeror’s in the competitive
range of scores after the initial evaluation of all proposals. The selected Offerors should each be given the
same amount of time to make their oral presentations to the evaluation team.

The oral presentation session is designed to:

         Satisfy the City’s need for clarification and understanding of the information provided in the
          Offeror’s proposal;
         Eliminate requirements that could result in excessive costs. This must be done in an impartial and
          objective manner;
         Demonstrate the functionality of a product or service; and
         Offer the Offeror an opportunity to propose a lower price or better product or service.

During the presentation, evaluation team members may ask questions about the proposal. When in person
presentations or demonstrations are not possible, the presentation may be made by telephone or on-line
conference. The presentation may be recorded for those not able to attend. The Offeror’s answers are
restricted to statements of facts. Discussion is permitted and an Offeror may change their proposal to make
it more attractive to the City. The Offeror may be required to document an answer if written clarification is
determined to be in the best interest of the City. All documented answers must relate specifically to
discussions and questions asked.

Extreme care must be taken to preclude allowing the advertised scope of services/specifications to be
materially modified (significant alterations of specifications) during the oral presentation. Care must also
be taken to ensure the equality established for all Offerors is not destroyed through the discussion or
response clarification process and that all Offerors are afforded the same opportunities. Details of
competing proposals must not be discussed during presentations.

After the Oral Presentations, all Offerors that presented may be re-evaluated based on the Evaluation
Criteria and process by the Evaluation Team.


Offeror’s References
The City uses the following statement in all RFP and RFQ solicitation documents:

          [The City reserves the right to check all references furnished and consider responses received in
          determining the award.]
                                                            24
W H A T     G O E S   I N T O   A   R F P   P R O C E S S ?


By using this clause, evaluation committees are not required to check references but may choose to do so.
Whether or not to check references as part of the evaluation is at the discretion of the committee based on
the individual procurement.

Depending on the individual procurement, the department may desire to add more specific language that
requires Offerors to provide general letters of reference of projects that are similar to the scope of services
described in the RFP or RFQ in their proposals.

If the evaluation committee opts to check references, a written questionnaire identifying the questions to
be asked of the Offeror’s references should be developed. Upon completing the reference checks, the
Buyer or designated member of the selection committee documents and reports all findings to the
evaluation committee.


Committee Award Recommendation3
With the assistance of the entire committee, the committee chairperson must make a written
recommendation to award to an Offeror or Offerors deemed most advantageous to the City. This
recommendation consists of:

          A summary of the procurement process;
          The acceptability or unacceptability of each vendor;
          The technical and financial ranking of each acceptable vendor;
          The combined final ranking of the vendors; and
          A detailed rationale explaining why the recommended vendor (or vendors) is the most
           advantageous.

Pursuant to Administrative Regulation No. 23, the Chief Procurement Officer may approve the evaluation
committee’s award recommendation for contracts estimated at or below $50,000. For contracts that exceed
$50,000 as a single contract or as multiple contracts for the same services within 12 consecutive months,
the evaluation committee’s contract award recommendation shall be reviewed by the Chief Procurement
Officer and submitted to the City Manager for approval.


Contract Negotiation
After the Chief Procurement Officer or the City Manager has approved the evaluation committee’s
recommendation to award, a team consisting of appropriate representatives of the City (e.g., a
representative from the City Solicitor’s office, an end user department representative, a Buyer from the
Division of Purchasing, etc.) and selected members of the evaluation committee will attempt to negotiate a
contract with the top-rated proposer. Negotiations are not limited to a single proposal and, in some cases,
the City may conduct negotiations with multiple proposers simultaneously in order to secure the best terms
for the City. This process should be limited to significant procurements only.



3   See Appendix D for a sample Evaluation Committee Award Recommendation Memo.

                                                                 25
W H A T   G O E S   I N T O   A   R F P   P R O C E S S ?



Notice of Award
The Buyer shall notify the selected proposer or proposers in writing of the City’s intent to enter into
negotiations. After the City Manager or the appropriate board or commission awards a contract, an
electronic or physical copy of the contract and a notice to proceed shall be issued to the resultant
contractor.


Contract File

The Buyer of record and the end user department shall maintain a contract file, which identifies the
successful proposer and the basis for the award decision. All documentation generated by the evaluation
committee, individual committee members’ reports, supporting written rationale, and the final
recommendation is to be included in the contract file.

The only items the City can hold as confidential are items in the proposal marked confidential. If the
Offeror has marked information in the proposal as confidential, upon receipt of a public records request,
the City will notify the Offeror of its intent to release records to the requestor. The Offeror shall have a
maximum of five (5) business days beginning with the date it receives notification to respond to the City
by either accommodating the requestor, providing redacted copies of the documents, or pursing legal
remedies to stop the City’s release of requested information. Said notification shall relieve the City of any
further obligation under any claim of Offeror or any of its agents or affiliates in any jurisdiction in
connection with the disclosure of such records. Offeror and its agents and affiliates may pursue legal
and/or equitable remedies to stop or limit disclosure at their sole expense.

Confidential or proprietary material must be clearly identified by the Offeror and easily separable from the
rest of the proposal. Such a request must provide written justification as to the basis for propriety or
confidentiality treatment.


Offeror/Proposer Debriefings

It is possible that after a contractor is awarded the resultant contract from a RFP, Offerors not selected for
award may request a debriefing of the procurement to get a sense of their proposals strengths and
deficiencies. If a debriefing is granted, the committee chairperson may be called upon to help the Buyer of
record respond to debrief. The committee chairperson and the Buyer of record may need to meet with
committee members and review notes prior to the actual debriefing.




                                                            26
This Page Is Intentionally Left Blank




             27
APPENDIX


  Appendix A – Evaluation Committee Approval Memo for projects not to exceed $50,000

  Appendix B – Evaluation Committee Approval Memo for projects in excess of $50,000

  Appendix C – Example Scoring Matrices

  Appendix D – Example Award Recommendation Memo

  Appendix E – RFP/Q Solicitation Preparation Checklist

  Appendix F – Confidentiality Agreement and Conflict of Interest Form




                                             28
This Page Is Intentionally Left Blank




             29
                                      Ap ppendix A
           Eva         ommittee Approvall Memo fo r projectss not to excceed $50,0000
             aluation Co




                                                                                                          May 4, 2016


TTO:              Patrick A. Duhaney, Ch
                                       hief Procurement Officer

FFROM:            Jane Doe, Director of Something
                                        S

C
CC:               Joe Buyer, City Purchas
                                        sing; Jane Prroject, Departtment Rep

SSUBJECT:         Request fo
                           or Approval of
                                       o the Evaluation Committtee Members for the Requ
                                                                                      uest for Prop
                                                                                                  posals (RFP)
                  for Manage
                           ement of Dukke Energy Convention Cen
                                                              nter (RFP426DECC)


T
The following list of the pro
                            oposed memb  bers of the evaluation commmittee that wiill be tasked w
                                                                                                with reviewing
                                                                                                             g the
P
Proposals/Qualifications su ubmitted by firms in responnse to the abo
                                                                    ove referenceed RFP/RFQ. The propose     ed members
o
of the evaluation committee  e are:

       1. Jane Engineer, Se enior Engineer, Department of Somethin
                                                                 ng Committee
                                                                            e Chair
       2. Rickyy Spice, Division Manager, Department of
                                                     o Somewherre
       3. Dillon
               n Sugar, Senioor Accountant, Department of Overthere
                                                                  e



Iff you agree with
              w this list off evaluators, please
                                          p      acknow
                                                      wledge your cconcurrence by signing be
                                                                                           elow.




A
Approved:                    _________
                                     ____________
                                                ___________
                                                          ___________
                                                                    ____ _______
                                                                               ________
                             Patrick A. Duh
                                          haney, Chief Procurement Officerr                     Date




                                                                30
                                Appendix B
E
Evaluation
         n Committee Appro
                         oval Memo
                                 o for projeects in exccess of $500,000




                                                                                                          May 4, 2016


TTO:              Harry Blac
                           ck, City Manag
                                        ger

FFROM:            Jane Doe, Director of Something
                                        S

C
CC:               Joe Buyer, City Purchas
                                        sing; Jane Prroject, Departtment Rep

SSUBJECT:         Request fo
                           or Approval of
                                       o the Evaluation Committtee Members for the Requ
                                                                                      uest for Prop
                                                                                                  posals (RFP)
                  for Manage
                           ement of Dukke Energy Convention Cen
                                                              nter (RFP426DECC)


T
The following list of the pro
                            oposed memb  bers of the evaluation commmittee that wiill be tasked w
                                                                                                with reviewing
                                                                                                             g the
P
Proposals/Qualifications su ubmitted by firms in responnse to the abo
                                                                    ove referenceed RFP/RFQ. The propose     ed members
o
of the evaluation committee  e are:

       1. Jane Engineer, Se enior Engineer, Department of Somethin
                                                                 ng Committee
                                                                            e Chair
       2. Rickyy Spice, Division Manager, Department of
                                                     o Somewherre
       3. Dillon
               n Sugar, Senioor Accountant, Department of Overthere
                                                                  e



Iff you agree with
              w this list off evaluators, please
                                          p      acknow
                                                      wledge your cconcurrence by signing be
                                                                                           elow.




R
Reviewed/Rec
           commended: _________
                              ____________
                                         ___________
                                                   ___________
                                                             ____ _______
                                                                        ________
                             Patrick A. Duh
                                          haney, Chief Procurement Officerr                     Date




A
Approved:                    _________
                                     ____________
                                                ___________
                                                          ___________
                                                                    ____ _______
                                                                               ________
                             Harry Black, City
                                          C Manager                                             Date




                                                                31
                                                Appendix C
                                           Example Scoring Matrices
                                     Example 1
            TITLE OF PROJECT AND SOLICITATION # (inserted by the Purchasing Division)
                                                         Scores will be assigned as follows:
 Firm Name:                                     .
                                                         5 = Outstanding
 Evaluator:                                     .        4 = Good, exceeds minimum requirement
                                                         3 = Average, meets minimum requirement
 Date:                                         _.        2 = Marginal, only partially responsive
                                                         1 = Poor, inadequate, fails to meet requirement
                                                         0 = Unsatisfactory, no response

                                                                                 Score         Weight        Points
 Criteria                                                                                        (0-5)
 1. Demonstrated Ability to meet Scope of Services                                 ----           ----         ----
    (20 points possible)
                (Criteria from RFP)                       5 points possible                      X1
                                                          5 points possible                      X1
                                                          5 points possible                      X1
                                                          5 points possible                      X1
 2. Demonstrated Technical Capability                                              ----          ----          ----
    (15 points possible)
                (Criteria from RFP)                       5 points possible                      X1
                                                          5 points possible                      X1
                                                          5 points possible                      X1
 3. Qualification and Expertise of Staff                                           ----          ----          ----
    (15 points possible)
                (Criteria from RFP)                      5 points possible                       X1
                                                         5 points possible                       X1
                                                         5 points possible                       X1
 4. References (5 points possible)                       5 points possible                       X1
 5. SBE Participation (5 points possible)                5 points possible                       X1
 5. Cost (40 points possible)                           40 points possible
                 Composite Score                      (100 points possible)                     Total



These points were provided by the Purchasing Division as an example.

* Evaluation Committee will use the following cost formula: The points assigned to each Offeror’s proposal will be based
on the lowest proposal price. The Offeror with the lowest Proposed Price will receive 100% of the price points. All other
Offerors will receive a portion of the total cost points based on what percentage higher their Proposed Price is than the
Lowest Proposed Price. An Offeror whose Proposed Price is more than double (200%) the Lowest Proposed Price will
receive no points. The formula to compute the points is: Cost Points x (2- Proposed Price/Lowest Proposed Price).




                                                         32
                                                         Appendix C
                                                    Example Scoring Matrices
                                            Example 2
               TITLE OF PROJECT AND SOLICITATION # ( inserted by the Purchasing Division)
                                                          Scores will be assigned as follows:
 Firm Name:                                     .
                                                          5 = Outstanding
 Evaluator:                                     .         4 = Good, exceeds minimum requirement
                                                          3 = Average, meets minimum requirement
 Date:                                        _.          2 = Marginal, only partially responsive
                                                          1 = Poor, inadequate, fails to meet requirement
                                                          0 = Unsatisfactory, no response



                                                                               Score     Weight          Points
 Criteria                                                                                  (0-5)
 1. Scope of Services (40 points possible)                                       ----      ----            ----
    Creative Approach                                     10 points possible               X2
    Sample Creative Concept                               15 points possible               X3
    Examples of Past work                                  5 points possible               X1
    Understanding of agency mission                        5 points possible               X1
    Realistic allocation of hours for each element         5 points possible               X1
 2. Specific Staff Experience (25 points possible)                               ----      ----            ----
    Expertise of staff involved in project                10 points possible               X2
    Direct experience in specific project                 10 points possible               X2
    Demonstrated ability to reach target audience          5 points possible               X1
 3. Timeframe (5 points possible)                                                ----      ----            ----
    Demonstrated ability to complete project               5 points possible               X1
    within required time
 4. SBE Participation (5 points possible)                  5 points possible               X1
 4. Cost (30 points possible)                             25 points possible
                  Composite Score                       100 points possible                Total



These points were provided by the Purchasing Division as an example.

* Evaluation Committee will use the following cost formula: The points assigned to each Offeror’s proposal will be based
  on the lowest proposal price. The Offeror with the lowest Proposed Price will receive 100% of the price points. All other
  Offerors will receive a portion of the total cost points based on what percentage higher their Proposed Price is than the
  Lowest Proposed Price. An Offeror whose Proposed Price is more than double (200%) the Lowest Proposed Price will
  receive no points. The formula to compute the points is: Cost Points x (2- Proposed Price/Lowest Proposed Price).




                                                                  33
                                              Appendix
                                              A        D
                                  Examp
                                      ple Award
                                              d Recomm
                                                     mendation Memo




N
Note: All text in
               i italics and underlined
                             u          are for example purposes
                                                        p        only


                                                                                                                  May 4, 2016
                                                                                                                            6

TTO:               Harry Blac
                            ck, City Manag
                                         ger

FFROM:             Jane Work
                           ker, Senior En
                                        ngineer, Evalu
                                                     uation Comm
                                                               mittee Chairpe
                                                                            erson

C
CC:                Emily Buye
                            er, Senior Buyer; Evaluatio
                                                      on Committee
                                                                 e Members;

SSUBJECT:          Recommendation of Aw ward to ABC INC. pursuan           2015-002 for the Program Managemen
                                                                nt to RFQ #2                                   nt
                   services fo
                             or the LMCPR
                                        R and Projectt Managemen
                                                               nt and Constru
                                                                           ruction Manag
                                                                                       gement (as Ag
                                                                                                   gent) services
                   for the VCS Project


SSubmitted herrewith for you
                           ur review and concurrence
                                                   e is the award
                                                                d recommend
                                                                          dation for the above referenced Reques
                                                                                                               st
ffor Proposal (RFP).
              (

H
HISTORY

O
On ________  ________ Dep     partment of Public
                                           P       Service
                                                         es solicited a RFP for ____   __________. The objectivve of the RFP   P
w
was to contrac ct with the firm
                              m (s) that subbmitted the “M
                                                         Most Advantag   geous” offer(ss) to the City for the reque
                                                                                                                  ested services
                                                                                                                               s.
In order to insure the obje   ective was met,
                                          m     Offerors were
                                                         w      evaluatted based on  n the following g evaluation criteria: Costt,
O
Overall Qualiffication and Experience
                             E            of the Firm, Qua
                                                         alifications off Key Personn nel, SBE Utilizzation.

TThe Proposals s were opene
                          ed on ______
                                     ______, of the
                                                  e six (6) prop
                                                               posals receive
                                                                            ed, all were re
                                                                                         responsive. Th
                                                                                                      he responsive
                                                                                                                  e
ffirms are as fo
               ollows:

          Comp
              pany 1
          Comp
              pany 2
          Comp
              pany 3
          Comp
              pany 4
          Comp
              pany 5
          Comp
              pany 6

T
The Proposals were evaluated by     b     a cross   s departme ental team which inclluded ____      _(names and    d
d
departments)_
            _____________. Additionally, City Purchhasing evalua
                                                               ated each Prooposal for resp
                                                                                          ponsiveness//compliance to
                                                                                                                   o
the RFP/RFQ
          Q. Based on th
                       he above objeective the follo
                                                   owing Propossal evaluation was prepareed.

P
PROPOSAL EVALUATION
         E        N PROCESS
                          S

A
All Proposals were first exa
                           amined to deetermine whetther or not th ey met all thee requiremen
                                                                                            nts of the RFP
                                                                                                         P. A point and
                                                                                                                      d
w
weight systemm was then used to evaluate the Pro      oposals by taaking the po oints assigned to a categgory item andd
m
multiplying by
             y the category
                          y item’s weigh
                                       ht (listed below
                                                      w). Each cate
                                                                  egory item wa as assigned a point range o
                                                                                                          of 0 to 4.

C
Categories                                                              W
                                                                        Weight

1
1.         SBE Utilization
                U                                                       1
                                                                        10%
2
2.         Overaall Qualificatio
                               on and Experiience of the Firm
                                                         F              3
                                                                        30%
3
3.         Qualiffications of Ke
                               ey Personnell                            3
                                                                        35%
4
4.         Cost                                                         2
                                                                        25%

                                                                34
                                           Appendix D
                               Example Award Recommendation Memo


Total                                                             100%

1.      Overall Qualification and Experience of the Firm: This category dealt with the prior experience and
        capabilities of the Respondent in providing the requested services to an institution such as UTMB.
2.      SBE Utilization : This category dealt with the bidder’s ability to meet the SBE requirements.

3.      Qualifications of Key Personnel: This category dealt with quality and type of the training materials, as well
        as, the quality and experience of the Respondent’s staff assigned to this project.

4.      Cost: This category dealt with the total overall cost.

The spreadsheet attached hereto as Exhibit No. 1 details the scoring for each Proposal.


SUBMITTED PROPOSALS

Listed below is a synopsis of each responsive Proposal submitted.

Company 1

        The highest rated response; excelling in the following areas:

           Excellent Qualifications (i.e., prior experience and references)
           Excellent overall Scope of Work
           Excellent Staff and Deliverables
           Second Highest rated Cost Proposal

Company 2

        The second highest rated response; excelling in the following areas:

           Excellent Qualifications (i.e., prior experience and references)
           Excellent overall Scope of Work
           Excellent Staff and Deliverables
           Third Highest rated Cost Proposal

Company 3

        The third highest rated response; excelling in the following areas:

           Excellent Qualifications (i.e., prior experience and references)
           Excellent overall Scope of Work
           Excellent Staff and Deliverables
           Fifth Highest rated Cost Proposal

Company 4

        The fourth rated response; excelling in the following areas:

           Excellent Qualifications (i.e., prior experience and references)
           Excellent overall Scope of Work
           Excellent Staff and Deliverables
           Fifth Highest rated Cost Proposal

Company 5

                                                            35
                                           Appendix D
                               Example Award Recommendation Memo


        The fifth rated response, met the overall requirements;

           Excellent Qualifications (i.e., prior experience and references)
           Good overall Scope of Work
           Excellent Staff and Deliverables
           Fourth Highest rated Cost Proposal

Company 6

        The sixth rated response, did not meet the overall requirements;

           Marginal Qualifications (i.e., prior experience and references)
           Poor overall Scope of Work
           Poor Staff and Deliverables
           Highest rated Cost Proposal


RECOMMENDATION

After a thorough evaluation by the Evaluation Committee, we recommend an award be made to Company 1. While
other Respondents also offered good overall Proposals, Company 1 can provide the services with equal expertise at a
lower overall cost. Based on their Proposal and experience, Company 1’s offer is the most advantageous in support of
the ____________ needs of the City.


Please indicate your concurrence with recommendation that the City enters into negotiations with Company 1. If there
are any questions or further information needed, please contact me at x3211 or via email.


Reviewed:                   ___________________________________________ ______________
                            Jackie Boss, Director of Something                  Date

Approved:                   ___________________________________________ ______________
                            Patrick Duhaney, Chief Procurement Officer          Date

Approved:                   ___________________________________________ ______________
                            Harry Black, City Manager                           Date




                                                           36
                                         Appendix E
                           RFP/Q Solicitation Preparation Checklist
                                RFP/Q Solicitation Preparation Checklist

       Project Name/RFP Title: (e.g. Body Worn Cameras for Cincinnati Police)

       Department Responsible for RFP: (e.g., Greater Cincinnati Water Works)


       Contact Info for Department Point of Contact:

       Name:                                Title:                       Phone:                    Email:



       Brief description of project scope:

       (e.g., CPD is seeking to acquire approximately 1,000 BWCs to be utilized by sworn
       police officers which will record video and audio interactions with officers and
       approximately 100 additional non-functional training BWCs.)


       Briefly describe what the vendor is to provide:

       (e.g., The Offeror shall provide Body Worn Cameras (BWC) and associated services
       required to assist the City with managing, operating, and maintaining the BWC system.)



Item                                       Question                                             Answer/Additional Comments
 1     Do you need a Request for Proposal (RFP) or Request for
       Qualifications (RFQ)?
                See RFP manual for help with choosing between a RFP or                                  (e.g., RFP)
                   RFQ.
 2     Has your department director approved this solicitation?
                                                                                                       (e.g., yes or no)

 3     MBE and WBE or SBE participation goal

       Prior to issuing a RFP or RFQ, the total cost of which is estimated to be $50,000 or
       more, the contracting agency must submit either a Goal Information Sheet or a Waiver    Include completed and approved
       Request to the Department of Economic Inclusion (DEl) for a M/WBE participation goal    M/WBE Goal Information Sheet or
       determination. M/WBE subcontracting goals are calculated based on an availability        completed or approved Waiver
       analysis based on the ratio of certified M/WBE firms to total available firms. In the              Request.
       event that DEI determines that M/WBE subcontracting goals will not apply to a RFP or
       RFQ, the SBE subcontracting goal of 15% (or 30% for construction) will apply on
       projects of $100,000 or more, unless waived or reduced. All M/WBE or SBE Waiver
       Requests shall be reviewed by the Director of DEI and submitted to the City Manager
       for approval.
                                      Appendix E
                        RFP/Q Solicitation Preparation Checklist

Item                                   Question                                     Answer/Additional Comments
 4     Completed and attach Form 217 (for Construction Projects)
                                                                                                     YES
 5     Estimated Cost of Acquisition (including all option years):                            (e.g., $98,000)
 6     Will a Pre-proposal Meeting or Site Visit be held? If so, list the date,   (e.g., December 11, 2015 at 2:25 PM
       time and location for each event.                                           in City Hall, 801 Plum Street, Room
                                                                                         11, Cincinnati, OH 45202)
 7     Desired Date to Issue RFP to Vendors:
                                                                                  (e.g., 1/11/2016)
 8     Desired Date to Receive Proposals from Vendors:
           Minimum two weeks after issue date.                                   (e.g., 1/31/2016)

 9     Is this RFP or RFQ for services to replace a current or previous
       contract? If so, provide the names of the incumbents/previous              (e.g., Smith Plumbing Services,
       contractors and contract number?                                           Contract No. 55x2100)


10     Proposed evaluation committee members. Attach a memo from the
       director proposing selection committee members. See RFP Manual.                        (e.g., Attached)

11     Did any firms provided services for the preparation or implementation
       of a project prior to the City releasing any bid, RFP, or RFQ or assist
       with preparing the Scope of Services? If so, please submit a list of any               (e.g., yes or no)
       firms.

12     Does the department want any particular vendors to receive the
       solicitation? If so, please list any vendors the department wants to
       receive solicitation (vendor list must include the following: name of             (e.g., Yes. List included)
       firm and the name, phone, and email of direct contact within the firm).
13     Any special forms to be included in the bidding booklet as a result of
       the funding utilized? If yes, please list at right and either indicate
                                                                                                  (e.g., No)
       server file pathway to MS Word or PDF versions or attach a copy of
       additional forms to be included.
14     What are the proposed evaluation criteria?                                          (e.g. Price Proposal: 30%
                                                                                    Qualifications of Key Personnel: 30%
                                                                                             Similar Projects: 20%
                                                                                  Small Business Enterprise utilizations: 20%)

15     Indicate whether you want Offerors to submit hardcopies of the               (e.g., 5 hardcopies, in addition to
       proposal in addition to electronic copies. Please indicate the number                 electronic copies)
       of hardcopies desired. Purchasing standard is to request electronic
       copies.

16     List any additional comments or special issues not addressed above.                       (e.g., N/A)
                                      Appendix F
                 Confidentiality Agreement and Conflict of Interest Form



                                        CONFIDENTIALITY AGREEMENT
                                                    AND
                                      CONFLICT OF INTEREST DISCLOSURE

I, ____________________________, have been appointed by the City of Cincinnati to serve as an evaluator of
proposals for the procurement of Request for Proposal (RFP)                                              .
I understand that my appointment is governed by and agree to comply with the following conditions and
representations regarding the use of any and all information I receive during the procurement process in
accordance with Administrative Regulation No. 23 and the policies promulgated in the RFP manual.
   1. I understand that all information I receive during the procurement process, including but not limited to
      the contents of specific proposals, my evaluations and those of other evaluators, rankings and
      discussions regarding proposals, constitutes “Confidential Information.”

   2. I understand that any unauthorized disclosure of Confidential Information will compromise the fairness
      of the procurement process.

   3. I agree:
           a. to hold all Confidential Information in strictest confidence; and
           b. not to disclose Confidential Information to any person other than evaluators and Purchasing
               representatives unless I have prior written permission from the Chief Procurement Officer to
               make a disclosure; and
           c. not to have any direct or indirect contact or discussions with any party who submits a proposal
               outside of the meetings scheduled as part of the procurement process; and
           d. to notify the assigned Buyer or the Purchasing Division immediately if:
                    i. any person who is not a member of the evaluation team or the Division of Purchasing
                       contacts or attempts to contact me about this procurement.
                   ii. a conflict of interest occurs (see attached City of Cincinnati Conflict of Interest form).
                  iii. I obtain information outside of this procurement process that could impair or could
                       create the appearance of impairing my ability to evaluate proposals submitted in
                       response to this RFP fairly and impartially.

   4. City Employee: □ Yes □ No
       I understand that, as a City employee, if I violate this agreement, I may be subject to disciplinary action.


Read and Accepted by:
                                                     Signature of Evaluator


                                                   Printed Name of Evaluator


                                                               Date



                                                        39
                                                                 Appendix F
                                            Confidentiality Agreement and Conflict of Interest Form

                                                                      CONFLICT OF INTEREST FORM
NAME:                                                                                                             DATE:
RFP NO. AND TITLE:
This form must be completed by each person that serves on the evaluation committee after receipt of the proposals, so that the City may assess
whether the proposed staff exhibit a conflict of interest.
                                     Questions                                                    Yes (Provide Details)                   No
1.   Personal Relationships
       a. Do you currently have or have had any official, professional, financial, or
           personal relationships with any person or firm associated with this
           assignment?
       b. If yes, name the person or firm and describe the type and extent of the
           relationship.
       c. In your opinion, might this affect your judgment or your ability to
           execute this assignment in a fair and impartial manner?


2.   Stock and Investments
       a. Do you own any stock in any company likely to be affected by or
            involved in the procurement process?
       b. Does your spouse, domestic partner, or a dependent own any stock in
            company likely to be affected by or involved in the procurement
            process?
       c. Do you hold any investments in any entity (e.g. partnership, limited
            liability company, or a trust) likely to be affected by or involved in the
            procurement process?
       d. Does your spouse, domestic partner, or a dependent hold any
            investments in any entity (e.g. partnership, limited liability company, or
            a trust) likely to be affected by or involved in the procurement process?
If the answer is yes to any of the above questions, please provide the name of the
company and the amount of the stock or investment.




                                                                                         40
                                                                Appendix F
                                           Confidentiality Agreement and Conflict of Interest Form
                                     Questions                                              Yes (Provide Details)   No
3.   Employment & Consulting
       a. Is your spouse, domestic partner, or a dependent employed/retained by
          anyone likely to be affected by or involved in the procurement process?
       b. Has your spouse, domestic partner, or dependent been previously
          employed/retained by anyone likely to be affected by or involved in the
          procurement process?
       c. Have you been employed/retained by anyone likely to be affected by or
          involved in the procurement process?
If the answer is yes to any of the above questions, please provide name of
employer, nature of services provided, and date of employment/retainment.

4.   Payments or Gifts
       a. Within the past 12 months, have you received any payments or gifts
          from anyone likely to be affected by or involved in the procurement
          process?
       b. Within the past 12 months, has your spouse, domestic partner, or a
          dependent received any payments or gifts from anyone likely to be
          affected by or involved in the procurement process?
If the answer is yes, please provide the amount the payment or value of the gift,
the name and position of the payor/donor and the date of receipt.


5.   Real Estate:
       a. Do you own real property that is likely to be affected by or involved in
            the procurement process?
       b. Does your spouse, domestic partner, or a dependent own real property
            that is likely to be affected by or involved in the procurement process?
If the answer is yes, please provide the location of the property.




                                                                                       41
                                                                 Appendix F
                                            Confidentiality Agreement and Conflict of Interest Form
                                     Questions                                                     Yes (Provide Details)                   No
6.   Positions
       a. Do you currently hold a position (e.g. member of a board of directors) of
            any entity (e.g. a company, partnership, association, nonprofit) that is
            likely to be affected by or involved in the procurement process?
       b. Does your spouse, domestic partner, or a dependent hold a position
            (e.g. member of a board of directors) of any entity (e.g. a company,
            partnership, association, nonprofit) that is likely to be affected by or
            involved in the procurement process?
If the answer is yes, please provide the name of the entity, and the title of the
position held.



7.   Are you aware of any facts or circumstance that might give someone the
     impression that your participation in this process would create a conflict of
     interest?




The undersigned has read and understood Conflicts of Interest and Contracting Ethics section of the RFP manual and Administrative Regulation No. 68. If
during the course of the assignment any personal, external, or organizational impairments occur that may affect the undersigned’s ability to perform the
work and report findings impartially, the undersigned will notify the respective Division of Purchasing Buyer assigned to the subject procurement
immediately.



___________________________________                                 ___________________________________
                    Date                                                               Signature




                                                                                     42
