                        CITY OF ALPINE
                  REQUEST FOR PROPOSALS (RFP)
                    ROAD MATERIALS 2020-03


            Sealed Proposal Due: March 26, 2020 10:00am


I.     PURPOSE

The City of Alpine (City) is soliciting Request for Proposals (RFP) for Road Materials.

Sealed proposals are due to the City Secretary’s Office by March 26, 2020 at 10am. Sealed
Proposals will be opened March 26, 2020 at 4pm. In order to be considered, the sealed
proposal must address each of the requests for information in the Summary of Qualifications
section.

II.    SERVICES REQUIRED

This is a request for proposal for Road Materials. The City is requesting proposals for
multiple types of material. (See Exhibit “A” for detailed list of material and quantity)

It is the City’s preference to award the contract to one vendor, but the City reserves the right
to choose secondary vendors also. An RFP allows for price negotiations after the bid
opening, so the City of Alpine has chosen this bid format as a way of protecting vendors
against future price increases. We have also built into this bid the ability to increase or
decrease prices based on market conditions and verifications as listed below:

Market Conditions

The City is aware of extreme market fluctuations occurring for these products, so we are
striving to arrive at a bid format that satisfies state bid law and also protects vendors against
future price increases. To protect the vendor and the City, we will ask your company to
establish a baseline price for the commodities listed. Prices can be negotiated after bids are
opened. Then, based on increases and decrease that occur to the listed products over the term
of the agreement, the City will allow increases or decreases in the same amount as the market
changes.

However, the winning vendor(s) will be asked to provide documentation proving a change in
price has occurred. If prices decrease over the term of the agreement, the winning vendor(s)
will be expected to pass along those decreases in pricing. The City will assume that by
submitting a bid under this format that your company agrees to this market protection. If you
have a different method of price protection, please include your information in your
response.
III.   GENERAL INFORMATION

The City of Alpine is a home rule City located in Brewster County and has a population of
approximately 6,000 residents. The City Operates under a Council-Manager form of
government with a Mayor, five (5) Council Members, and a City Manager. The Council
Members are elected from single member wards, with the Mayor elected at large. The City
Manager is the Chief Executive Officer of the City. It is the City Manager’s duty to execute
an implement policy as established by the City Council.

IV.    SUBMISSION OF RESPONSE

Delivery: Proposals must be sealed. Proposals may be mailed or hand-delivered to the City
of Alpine, City Secretary. Sealed proposals for Road Materials are due to the City
Secretary’s Office by 10am on March 26, 2020.

Proposal packets are required to include eight (8) copies.

Please provide responses to Questions 1- 4 in Section V, Statement of Qualifications and
provide pricing for each or all of the requested materials in Exhibit “A”.

Please include on the sealed bid envelope:

“SEALED RFP ROAD MATERIAL 2020-03 – TO BE OPENED March 26, 2020 AT
4pm”

Proposals received after this time will be returned unopened. The City reserves the right to
reject any and all proposals, to request additional information concerning any proposals for
purposes of clarification, and to waive any irregularities and informalities in the submittal
and evaluation process. This RFP does not obligate the City to pay any cost incurred by
respondents in the preparation of the proposals. Furthermore, this RFP does not obligate the
City to accept or contract for any implied services.

Mailing Address and Hand Delivery Address:

Cynthia Salas, City Secretary
City of Alpine
100 North 13th
Alpine, Texas 79830
Your qualifications shall be governed by the following schedule:

March 24, 2020 at 5pm Central Standard Time (“CST”)
Deadline for inquiries, questions, or requests for information with the Streets Department
All questions must be submitted in writing to: city.secretary@ci.alpine.tx.us.

March 26, 2020 at 10am, CST
Sealed, written proposals are due at the City of Alpine City Secretary’s Office.
Proposals received after the published deadline shall remain unopened and will be returned to
the vendor.

March 26, 2020 at 4pm, CST
Opening of sealed proposals. To be considered for this engagement you must meet the
qualifications and satisfy the requirements set forth in this RFP.

Communication: All communication regarding the submission of your qualification proposal
are to be in writing through the City Secretary at: city.secretary@ci.alpine.tx.us.

V.     QUALIFICATION PROPOSAL INFORMATION

Statement of Qualifications

Each Statement of Qualifications (SOQ) must address, but does not need to be limited to, the
following information:

Respondents shall include:

Qualifications and Experience

1. List the name and all addresses of location(s) of your firm. Which firm location will be
   used to provide materials to the City of Alpine?
2. List all individuals and contact information for who would be providing services for this
   RFP.
3. List your history (if any) providing road materials to the City of Alpine.
4. Describe your involvement with municipalities or other governmental agencies that you
   have provided road materials delivery services for. List any contact information for
   current/former references for the past five (5) years for governmental clients.

VI.    EVALUATION PROCESS

The City of Alpine reserves the right to accept or reject any and all submissions in the best
interest of the City. Proposals will remain in effect for 90 days. Proposals cannot be altered
or amended after the submission deadline. Any interlineations, alterations, or erasures made
before bid opening must be initialed by the signor of the proposal, guaranteeing authenticity.
Receiving Bids

Sealed bids are received by the City Secretary. The time received shall be noted on the
envelope or box and initialed.

Bids received after the published deadline shall remain unopened and will be returned to
vendor.

Bid Process

Sealed bids will be opened by the City Manager with the Director of Public Works, and City
Secretary, and finance personnel. The bids shall remain on file, open for inspection in the
City Secretary’s Office for at least forty-eight (48) hours before the contract may be awarded.
Bids are received, which are unmarked, shall be opened for identification purposes only and
resealed. The envelope or box shall be marked accordingly.

After proposals are opened and publicly read, the proposals will be tabulated for comparison
on the basis of the bid prices and quantities (lowest responsible vendor) or by the best value
method shown in the bid. Until final award of the Contract, the City reserves the right to
reject any or all bids, to waive technicalities, and to re-advertise for new bids. The following
items will be considered when an award is based on best value:

•   The purchase price for road materials (Exhibit A), including cost of delivery;
•   The reputation of the bidder and the bidder’s goods and services;
•   The bidder’s past relationship with the municipality;
•   The total long-term cost to the municipality to acquire the bidder’s goods or servies;

The RFP will be awarded using the following criteria:

•   Pricing of requested items
•   Ability to deliver product in a timely manner
•   References
•   Previous relationship with the City of alpine

BID AWARD AND PRICING

After your response to this RFP is submitted, the City will negotiate a final price which is
then approved by City Council. Prior to City Council approval, if any market changes occur
the responding vendor must notify the Director of Public Works and City Manager of this
immediately. Once this Council approval occurs, pricing will be subject to the Market
Conditions terms listed above for price increases and decreases. After the bid award, vendors
who have been awarded a contract and wish to propose adjusted pricing to the agreement due
to changes in the marked must do so through certified mail or via e-mail to the Director of
Public Works and City Manager. Documentation verifying the reason for the price increase
must be sent as part of the request. Upon review of adjusted proposals, the City of Alpine
may elect to dissolve the existing contract upon its expiration date or accept the price
increase.

The Review Committee shall be responsible for preparing a tabulation sheet for all bids
received that will be made available to the public upon request. The tabulation sheets will be
forwarded to the City Council to make the final decision of an award.

Point of Contact

In the event clarification or additional information is needed, contact:

Cynthia Salas, City Secretary
100 North 13th Street
Alpine, Texas 79830
city.secretary@ci.alpine.tx.us


Notice

Any notice provided by this RFP or required by law to be given to the respondents by the
City of Alpine shall be deemed to have been given and received on the next business day
after such written notice was deposited in the U.S. Postal Service mail facility in Alpine,
Texas by registered or certified mail addressed to the respondent at the address provided in
the sealed respondent. Any interpretation, corrections, or changes to this Request for
Proposal will be made by addenda. The sole issuing authority of addenda shall be the City of
Alpine City Secretary. Addenda will be mailed to all who are known to have received a copy
of this Request for Proposals. Bidders shall acknowledge receipt of all addenda.
                                  EXHIBIT “A”

                                  City of Alpine


                            Request for Proposal
                           Road Materials for 2020

               Material:            Amount Requested: Price Quoted
     1. CRS-2 Asphalt               50’000 Gals.

2.      MS-2 Asphalt                20’000 Gals.

3.      Grade 4 Rock                15’000 Tons

4.      Grade 5 Rock                15’000 Tons

5.      Base                        500 Tons

6.      Grade 4 Pre-coated Rock     15’000 Tons

7.      Grade 5 Pre-coated Rock     15’000 Tons



Please provide pricing for the above-mentioned materials, including
delivery.

Not all materials may be purchased at the same time.
