             CITY OF PHOENIX
FINANCE DEPARTMENT – PROCUREMENT DIVISION



          REQUEST FOR PROPOSAL
             RFP 18-288 (KFT)

       Public Sector Budgeting Software
            Requirements Contract




             Procurement Officer

                Kelie F. Thomas
   Finance Department - Procurement Division
       251 W. Washington Street, 8th Floor
               Phoenix, AZ 85003

          Phone number: 602-495-6954
   Email address: kelie.thomas@phoenix.gov
                                                                                                    CITY OF PHOENIX
                                                                                                   Finance Department
                                      TABLE OF CONTENTS                                            Procurement Division
                                                                                               251 W. Washington St., 8th Flr.
                                                                                                    Phoenix, AZ 85003



SECTION I – INSTRUCTIONS .................................................................................... 4

SECTION II – STANDARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS .......................................... 17

SECTION III – SPECIAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS ............................................. 31

SECTION IV – INSURANCE AND INDEMNIFICATION ........................................... 47

SECTION V – SCOPE ............................................................................................... 52

SECTION VI: SUBMITTALS ..................................................................................... 82




                                                                                                       Page 2
Solicitation Number: RFP 18-288 (KFT)                                                        Rev 1    09/2017 (JMK)
                                        SECTION I - INSTRUCTIONS




Please read before continuing to the offer document.


SOLICITATION RESPONSE CHECK LIST

Check off each of the following as the necessary action is completed.

      All forms have been completed and signed, including Solicitation Disclosure
       form.

       All Submittals are included.

       Reviewed and verified prices offered.

       Checked price extensions and totals.

       Included any required drawings or descriptive literature.

       If required, checked and included the amount of the offer surety.

       Reviewed the insurance requirements, if any, to assure compliance.

       Included the specified number of copies of the offer as indicated in Submittal
        section.

      Included signed addenda, if any.

      Addressed the mailing envelope to the Procurement Officer on the solicitation
       front page, at the address listed.

      The mailing envelope clearly shows your company name and address, the
       solicitation number, and the offer opening date.
      Mailed the response in time – City must receive offers no later than the date
       and time indicated in the Schedule of Events or addenda.




                                                                               Page 3
Solicitation Number: RFP 18-288 (KFT)                                 Rev 1   09/2017 (JMK)
                                        SECTION I - INSTRUCTIONS



SECTION I – INSTRUCTIONS


     The City of Phoenix invites sealed offers for Public Sector Budgeting Software for
     a twelve-year period commencing on or about February 1, 2019, in accordance with
     the specifications and provisions contained herein.

     This solicitation is available through Arizona Relay Service 7-1-1. Please call TTY
     800-367-8939 for assistance.

     Notwithstanding the foregoing, this Agreement will terminate upon the earliest
     occurrence of any of the following:

          reaching the end of the term and any extensions exercised as set forth above;
          or
          termination pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement.

1. CITY’S VENDOR SELF-REGISTRATION AND NOTIFICATION: Vendors must be
   registered in the City’s eProcurement Self-Registration System at
   https://www.phoenix.gov/financesite/Pages/EProc-help.aspx in
2.
3. order to receive solicitation notices, respond to solicitations and access
   procurement information. The City may, at its sole discretion, reject any offer from
   an Offeror who has not registered in the City’s eProcurement system.


4. SCHEDULE OF EVENTS:
       ACTIVITY (All times are local Phoenix time)                   DATE
       Mandatory Pre-Offer Conference                Tuesday, July 10, 2018 at 9:00 a.m.
                                                                (local AZ time)
       Pre-Offer Conference Location                        Calvin Goode Building
                                                     251 W. Washington Street, 8th Floor
                                                            Conference Room 854
                                                              Phoenix, AZ 85003
       Written Inquiries Due Date                    Tuesday, July 17, 2018 at 10:00 a.m.
                                                                (local AZ time)
       Offer Due Date                                Friday, August 10, 2018 at 2:00 p.m.
                                                                (local AZ time)
       Offer Submittal Location                             Calvin Goode Building
                                                             Procurement Division
                                                     251 W. Washington Street, 8th Floor



                                                                                Page 4
Solicitation Number: RFP 18-288 (KFT)                                  Rev 1   09/2017 (JMK)
                                        SECTION I - INSTRUCTIONS



                                                                Phoenix, AZ 85003
      Demonstration/ Interviews (if required)                            TBD

      Demonstration/ Interview Location                                  TBD

   The City reserves the right to change dates and/or locations as necessary, and the
   City does not always hold a Pre-Offer Conference or Site visit.

   Mandatory Pre-Offer Conference can be attended in person or by teleconference.
   Notes or minutes of the meeting will not be distributed.

   The conference bridge information for the MANDATORY Pre-Offer Conference:

   To join AT&T Connect Conference, click here:
   https://connect4.uc.att.com/service16/meet/?ExEventID=82847258&CT=M

   For dialing-in only, dial one of the numbers listed below; when prompted, enter the
   meeting access code, 2847258#
       Caller-Paid number: 216-706-7005
       Toll-Free Number (in USA): 866-434-5269

5. OBTAINING A COPY OF THE SOLICITATION AND ADDENDA: Interested
   Offerors may download the complete solicitation and addenda from
   https://www.phoenix.gov/solicitations. Internet access is available at all public
   libraries. Any interested offerors without internet access may obtain this solicitation
   by calling the Procurement Officer or picking up a copy during regular business
   hours at the City of Phoenix Finance Department, Procurement Division, 251 W.
   Washington Street, 8th Floor, Phoenix, AZ. It is the Offeror’s responsibility to check
   the website and verify all required information is submitted with their offer.

6. PREPARATION OF OFFER:
     4.1. All forms provided in Submittal Section must be completed and submitted
          with the offer. The signed and completed Solicitation Disclosure form
          must be included or your offer may be deemed non-responsive.

       4.2.   It is permissible to copy Submittal forms if necessary. Erasures,
              interlineations, or other modifications of the offer must be initialed in
              original ink by the authorized person signing the offer. No offer will be
              altered, amended or withdrawn after the specified offer due date and
              time. The City is not responsible for Offeror’s errors or omissions.

       4.3.   All time periods stated as a number of days will be calendar days.



                                                                                  Page 5
Solicitation Number: RFP 18-288 (KFT)                                    Rev 1   09/2017 (JMK)
                                        SECTION I - INSTRUCTIONS



       4.4.   It is the responsibility of all Offerors to examine the entire solicitation and
              seek clarification of any requirement that may not be clear and to check
              all responses for accuracy before submitting an offer. Negligence in
              preparing an offer confers no right of withdrawal after due date and time.
              Offerors are strongly encouraged to:
              4.4.1. Consider applicable laws and/or economic conditions that may
                       affect cost, progress, performance, or furnishing of the products or
                       services.
              4.4.2. Study and carefully correlate Offeror’s knowledge and
                       observations with the solicitation and other related data.
              4.4.3. Promptly notify the City of all conflicts, errors, ambiguities, or
                       discrepancies that Offeror has discovered in or between the
                       solicitation and other related documents.
              4.4.4. The City does not reimburse the cost of developing, presenting or
                       providing any response to this solicitation. Offers submitted for
                       consideration should be prepared simply and economically,
                       providing adequate information in a straightforward and concise
                       manner. The Offeror is responsible for all costs incurred in
                       responding to this solicitation. All materials and documents
                       submitted in response to this solicitation become the property of
                       the City and will not be returned.
              4.4.5. Offerors are reminded that the specifications stated in the
                       solicitation are the minimum level required and that offers
                       submitted must be for products or services that meet or exceed
                       the minimum level of all features specifically listed in this
                       solicitation. Offers offering less than any minimum specifications
                       or criteria specified are not responsive and should not be
                       submitted.
              4.4.6. Offer responses submitted for products considered by the seller to
                       be acceptable alternates to the brand names or manufacturer’s
                       catalog references specified herein must be submitted with
                       technical literature and/or detailed product brochures for the City’s
                       use to evaluate the products offered. Offers submitted without this
                       product information may be considered as non-responsive and
                       rejected. The City will be the sole judge as to the acceptability of
                       alternate products offered.
              4.4.7. Prices will be submitted on a per unit basis by line item, when
                       applicable. In the event of a disparity between the unit price and
                       extended price, the unit price will prevail unless obviously in error.




                                                                                   Page 6
Solicitation Number: RFP 18-288 (KFT)                                     Rev 1   09/2017 (JMK)
                                        SECTION I - INSTRUCTIONS



7. EXCEPTIONS: Offerors must conform to all of the requirements specified in the
   solicitation. The City encourages Offerors to send inquiries to the procurement
   officer rather than including exceptions in their Offer.

   7.1. Notwithstanding the foregoing, proposers may submit their standard end-user
        license agreements and license agreements for component third-party software
        (collectively, “EULAs”) and/or source code escrow agreements (“SCEAs”) as
        supplements to their offer. However, by submitting an offer in response to this
        RFP such proposers acknowledge and agree as follows: (i) where any conflict
        exists between the terms set forth in this RFP (including but not limited to
        Section III hereof) and the terms of the EULA or SCEA, the terms set forth in
        this RFP will supersede the conflicting EULA or SCEA terms; and (ii)
        notwithstanding any terms or conditions contained in the EULA or SCEA, no
        terms or conditions of such EULA or SCEA shall be applied or enforced in a
        manner that conflicts with or would cause violation of any provision of the
        Phoenix City Code or Charter (including but not limited to Section 42-18 of the
        Phoenix City Code).

       Maintenance agreement templates may be submitted as set forth in the Scope
       of Work.

        Acceptance by the City of offers submitted with EULAs, SCEAs, or
        maintenance agreement templates does not constitute the City’s agreement to
        the terms of such agreements; instead, the City reserves the right to negotiate
        with the successful proposer the terms of any EULA, SCEA, or maintenance
        agreement submitted by such proposer.

8. INQUIRIES: All questions that arise relating to this solicitation should be directed
   via email to the Procurement Officer and must be received by the due date indicated
   in the Schedule of Events. The City will not consider questions received after the
   deadline.
   No informal contact initiated by Offerors on the proposed service will be allowed
   with members of City’s staff from date of distribution of this solicitation until after the
   closing date and time for the submission of offers. All questions concerning or
   issues related to this solicitation must be presented in writing.
   The Procurement Officer will answer written inquiries in an addendum and publish
   any addendums on the Procurement Website.

9. ADDENDA: The City of Phoenix will not be responsible for any oral instructions
   made by any employees or officers of the City of Phoenix in regard to the offering
   instructions, plans, drawings, specifications, or contract documents. Any changes
   to the plans, drawings and specifications will be in the form of an addendum. The



                                                                                    Page 7
Solicitation Number: RFP 18-288 (KFT)                                      Rev 1   09/2017 (JMK)
                                        SECTION I - INSTRUCTIONS



   Offeror must acknowledge receipt of any/all addenda by signing and returning the
   document with the offer submittal.

10. LICENSES: If required by law for the operation of the business or work related to
    this Offer, Offeror must possess all valid certifications and/or licenses as required
    by federal, state or local laws at the time of submittal.

11. CERTIFICATION: By signature in the offer section of the Offer and Acceptance
    page, Offeror certifies:
        The submission of the offer did not involve collusion or other anti-competitive
          practices.
        The Offeror must not discriminate against any employee, or applicant for
          employment in violation of Federal or State Law.
        The Offeror has not given, offered to give, nor intends to give at any time
          hereafter, any economic opportunity, future employment, gift, loan, gratuity,
          special discount, trip, favor, or service to a public servant in connection with
          the submitted offer.

12. SUBMISSION OF OFFER: Offers must be in possession of the Department on or
    prior to the exact time and date indicated in the Schedule of Events. Late offers will
    not be considered. The prevailing clock will be the City Department’s clock.

   Offers must be submitted in a sealed envelope and the following information should
   be noted on the outside of the envelope:

        Offeror’s Name
        Offeror’s Address (as shown on the Certification Page)
        Solicitation Number
        Solicitation Title

   All offers must be completed in ink or typewritten. Include the number of copies that
   are required as indicated in the Submittal section.

13. WITHDRAWAL OF OFFER: At any time prior to the solicitation due date and time,
    an Offeror (or designated representative) may withdraw the offer by submitting a
    request in writing and signed by a duly authorized representative.

14. OFFER RESULTS: Offers will be opened on the offer due date, time and location
    indicated in the Schedule of Events at which time the name of each Offeror will be
    read. Offers and other information received in response to the solicitation will be
    shown only to authorized City personnel having a legitimate interest in them or
    persons assisting the City in the evaluation. Offers are not available for public



                                                                                 Page 8
Solicitation Number: RFP 18-288 (KFT)                                   Rev 1   09/2017 (JMK)
                                        SECTION I - INSTRUCTIONS



   inspection until after the City has posted the award recommendation on the City’s
   website.

   The City will post a preliminary offer tabulation on the City’s website,
   https://www.phoenix.gov/solicitations within five calendar days of the offer opening.
   The City will post the information on the preliminary tabulation as it was read during
   the offer opening. The City makes no guarantee as to the accuracy of any
   information on the preliminary tabulation. Once the City has evaluated the offers,
   the City will post an award recommendation on the website. The City will not provide
   any further notification to unsuccessful Offerors.

15. AWARD OF CONTRACT: Unless otherwise indicated, award(s) will be made to the
    highest scored responsive, responsible Offeror(s) who are regularly established in
    the service contained in this solicitation and who have demonstrated the ability to
    perform the required service in an acceptable manner.

   Notwithstanding any other provision of this solicitation, the City reserves the right
   to: (1) waive any immaterial defect or informality; or (2) reject any or all offers or
   portions thereof; or (3) reissue a solicitation.

   A response to a solicitation is an offer to contract with the City based upon the
   terms, conditions, and specifications contained in the City’s solicitation. Offers do
   not become contracts until they are executed by the Deputy Finance Director or
   Department Director. A contract has its inception in the award, eliminating a formal
   signing of a separate contract. For that reason, all of the terms, conditions and
   specifications of the procurement contract are contained in the solicitation, and in
   any addendum or contract amendment.

16. SOLICITATION TRANSPARENCY POLICY:
      16.1. Commencing on the date and time a solicitation is published, potential
            or actual offerors or respondents(including their representatives) shall
            only discuss matters associated with the solicitation with the Mayor, any
            members of City Council, the City Manager, any Deputy City Manager,
            or any department director directly associated with the solicitation
            (including in each case their assigned staff, except for the designated
            procurement officer) at a public meeting, posted under Arizona
            Statutes, until the resulting contract(s) are awarded to all offers or
            responses are rejected and the solicitation is cancelled without any
            announcement by the Procurement Officer of the City’s intent to reissue
            the same or similar solicitation.




                                                                                Page 9
Solicitation Number: RFP 18-288 (KFT)                                  Rev 1   09/2017 (JMK)
                                        SECTION I - INSTRUCTIONS



       16.2. As long as the solicitation is not discussed, Offerors may continue to
             conduct business with the City and discuss business that is unrelated to
             the solicitation with the City staff. Offerors may not discuss the
             solicitation with any City employees or evaluation panel members,
             except the procurement officer.

       16.3. Offerors may discuss their proposal or the solicitation with the Mayor or
             one or more members of the Phoenix City Council, provided such
             meetings are scheduled through the Procurement Officer, and are
             posted as open meetings with the City Clerk at least 24 hours prior to
             the scheduled meetings. The City Clerk will be responsible for posting
             the meetings. The posted notice shall identify the participants and the
             subject matter, as well as invite the public to participate.

       16.4. With respect to the selection of the successful Offerors, the City
             Manager and/or City Manager's Office will continue the past practice of
             exerting no undue influence on the process. In all solicitations of bids
             and proposals, any direction on the selection from the City Manager
             and/or City Manager's Office and Department Head (or representative)
             to the proposal review panel or selecting authority must be provided in
             writing to all prospective Offerors.

       16.5. This policy is intended to create a level playing field for all Offerors,
             assure that contracts are awarded in public, and protect the integrity of
             the selection process. PROPOSERS THAT VIOLATE THIS POLICY
             SHALL BE DISQUALIFIED. After official Notice is received by the City
             for disqualification, the Proposer may follow the Protest process, unless
             the Solicitation is cancelled without notice of intent to re-issue.

       16.6. “To discuss” means any contact by the proposer, regardless of whether
             the City responds to the contact. Offerors that violate this policy shall be
             disqualified until the resulting contract(s) are awarded, or all offers or
             responses are rejected and the solicitation is cancelled without any
             announcement by the Procurement Officer of the City’s intent to reissue
             the same or a similar solicitation. The City interprets the policy as
             continuing through a cancellation of a solicitation until Council award of
             the contract, as long as the City cancels with a statement that the City
             will rebid the solicitation.




                                                                                 Page 10
Solicitation Number: RFP 18-288 (KFT)                                   Rev 1   09/2017 (JMK)
                                        SECTION I - INSTRUCTIONS



17. PROTEST PROCESS
      17.1. Offeror may protest the contents of a solicitation no later than seven days
            before the solicitation deadline when the protest is based on an apparent
            alleged mistake, impropriety or defect in the solicitation. Protests filed
            regarding the solicitation may be addressed by an amendment to the
            solicitation or denied by the City. If denied, the opening and award will
            proceed unless the City determines that it is in the City’s best interests to
            set new deadlines, amend the solicitation, cancel or re-bid.

       17.2. Therefore, unless otherwise notified by a formal amendment, the
             Protester must adhere to all solicitation dates and deadlines, including
             timely filing of an offer, regardless of filing a protest.

       17.3. Offeror may protest an adverse determination issued by the City
             regarding responsibility and responsiveness, within seven days of the
             date the Offeror was notified of the adverse determination.

       17.4. Offeror may protest an award recommendation if the Offeror can
             establish that it had a substantial chance of being awarded the contract
             and will be harmed by the recommended award. The City will post
             recommendations to award the contract(s) to a particular Offeror on the
             City’s website. Offeror must submit award protests within seven days
             after the posting of the award recommendation, with exceptions only for
             good cause shown, within the City’s full and final discretion
       17.5. All protests will be in writing, filed with the Procurement Officer identified
             in the solicitation and include the following:
              Identification of the solicitation number;
              The name, address and telephone number of the protester;
              A detailed statement describing the legal and factual grounds for the
                 protest, including copies of relevant documents;
              The form of relief requested; and
              The signature of the protester or its authorized representative.

       17.6. The Procurement Officer will render a written decision within a
             reasonable period of time after the protest is filed. The City will not
             request City Council authorization to award the contract until the protest
             process is complete. All protests and appeals must be submitted in
             accordance with the City’s Procurement Code, (Phoenix City Code, Ch.
             43), and administrative regulation 3.10 and any protests or appeals not




                                                                                  Page 11
Solicitation Number: RFP 18-288 (KFT)                                    Rev 1   09/2017 (JMK)
                                        SECTION I - INSTRUCTIONS



              submitted within the time requirements will not be considered. Protests
              must be filed with the Procurement Officer.

18. PUBLIC RECORD: All Offers submitted in response to this solicitation will become
    the property of the City and become a matter of public record available for review
    pursuant to Arizona State law. If an Offeror believes that a specific section of its
    Offer response is confidential, the Offeror will isolate the pages marked confidential
    in a specific and clearly labeled section of its Offer response. An Offeror may
    request specific information contained within its Offer is treated by the Procurement
    Officer as confidential provided the Offeror clearly labels the information
    “confidential.” To the extent necessary for the evaluation process, information
    marked as “confidential” will not be treated as confidential. Once the procurement
    file becomes available for public inspection, the Procurement Officer will not make
    any information identified by the Offerors as “confidential” available to the public
    unless necessary to support the evaluation process or if specifically requested in
    accordance with applicable public records law. When a public records request for
    such information is received, the Procurement Officer will notify the Offeror in writing
    of any request to view any portion of its Offer marked “confidential.” The Offeror will
    have the time set forth in the notice to obtain a court order enjoining such disclosure.
    If the Offeror does not provide the Procurement Officer with a court order enjoining
    release of the information during the designated time, the Procurement Officer will
    make the information requested available for inspection.

19. LATE OFFERS: Late Offers must be rejected, except for good cause. If a late Offer
    is submitted, the Department will document the date and time of the submittal of
    the late Offer, keep the Offer and notify the Offeror that its Offer was disqualified for
    being a late Offer.

20. RIGHT TO DISQUALIFY: The City reserves the right to disqualify any Offeror who
    fails to provide information or data requested or who provides materially inaccurate
    or misleading information or data. The City further reserves the right to disqualify
    any Offeror on the basis of any real or apparent conflict of interest that is disclosed
    by the Offeror submitted or any other data or information available to the City. This
    disqualification is at the sole discretion of the City. By submission of a solicitation
    response, the Offeror waives any right to object now or at any future time, before
    any agency or body including, but not limited to, the City Council of the City or any
    court as to the exercise by the City of such right to disqualify or as to any
    disqualification by reason of real or apparent conflict of interest determined by the
    City. The City reserves the right to replace the disqualified Offeror.

21. STATEMENT OF BONDING ABILITY: Offerors must submit a letter from a bonding
    or insurance company stating that the Offeror can qualify for and procure the
    performance and/or payment surety required in this solicitation. Submittals received



                                                                                   Page 12
Solicitation Number: RFP 18-288 (KFT)                                     Rev 1   09/2017 (JMK)
                                        SECTION I - INSTRUCTIONS



   without the required statement of ability to secure a performance or payment surety
   may be considered as non-responsive. Offerors anticipating the submittal of a cash
   surety in lieu of a bond should submit a statement notifying the City.

22. PERFORMANCE BOND: A performance surety in the amount of 10% of the total
    contract amount shall be provided by the Contractor immediately after notice of
    award. The City of Phoenix will not issue a written purchase order or give notice to
    proceed in any form until the surety is received by the Procurement Officer. The
    performance surety must be in the form of a bond, cashier's check, certified check
    or money order. Personal or company checks are not acceptable unless certified.
    If surety is in the form of a bond, the company issuing the surety must be authorized
    by the Insurance Department of Arizona to transact business in the State of Arizona
    or be named on the approved listing of non-admitted companies. A Certificate of
    Deposit (CD) issued by a local Phoenix bank may also be used as a form of surety
    provided that the CD is issued jointly in the name of the City of Phoenix and the
    Contractor, and that the Contractor endorses the CD over to the City at the
    beginning of the contract period. Interest earnings from the CD can be retained by
    the Contractor.

23. CONTRACT AWARD: The City reserves the right to award a contract by individual
    line items, by group, all or none, or any other combination most advantageous to
    the City. The City reserves the right to multiple award.

24. EVALUATION OF COMPETITIVE SEALED OFFERS: The City will use its
    discretion in applying the following processes to this solicitation. Any ties in scoring
    will be resolved with a best and final price request and the lowest price will prevail.

25. EVALUATION CRITERIA: In accordance with the Administrative Regulation, 3.10,
    Competitive Sealed Proposal awards shall be made to the responsible proposer(s)
    whose proposal is determined in writing to be the most advantageous to the City
    based upon the evaluation criteria listed below. The evaluation factors are listed in
    the relative order of importance and more details are provided in Section V – Scope
    of Work.

   Business Requirements                                         300 POINTS (30%)
   Demonstration and Interviews                                  250 POINTS (25%)
   Qualifications, Experience, and References                    250 POINTS (25%)
      Product Satisfaction and Solution
       Implementation By Key Personnel                    140 POINTS
      Experience of Key Personnel                         80 POINTS




                                                                                   Page 13
Solicitation Number: RFP 18-288 (KFT)                                     Rev 1   09/2017 (JMK)
                                        SECTION I - INSTRUCTIONS



       Firm Capabilities                                 30 POINTS
   Pricing                                                    100 POINTS (10%)
   Method of Approach                                         100 POINTS (10%)
       Project Approach                                  70 POINTS
       Implementation Schedule                           30 POINTS

   TOTAL AVAILABLE POINTS:                                     1000 MAXIMUM

26. DETERMINING RESPONSIVENESS AND RESPONSIBILITY:
      26.1. Offers will be reviewed for documentation of minimum qualifications,
            completeness, and compliance with the Solicitation requirements. The
            City reserves sole discretion to determine responsiveness and
            responsibility.

       26.2. Responsiveness: Nonresponsive Offers will not be considered in the
             evaluation process. The solicitation states criteria that determine
             responsiveness, and the solicitation includes terms and conditions that if
             included or excluded from Offers (as the case may be) will render an
             Offer nonresponsive.

       26.3. Responsibility: To obtain true economy, the City must conduct
             solicitations to minimize the possibility of a subsequent default by the
             contractor, late deliveries, or other unsatisfactory performance that may
             result in additional administrative costs. It is important that the Offeror be
             a responsible contractor. Responsibility includes the Offeror’s integrity,
             skill, capacity, experience, and facilities for conducting the work to be
             performed.

       26.4. The Procurement Officer, will review each Offer to determine if the
             Offeror is responsible. The City’s determination as to whether an Offeror
             is responsible will be based on the information furnished by the Offeror,
             interviews (if any), any information at the City’s request, information in
             any best and final offer, and information received from Offeror’s
             references, including information about Offeror’s past history,
             terminations for convenience or cause, contract breach lawsuits or
             notices of claim and any other sources the City deems appropriate.
             Award of the Contract resulting from the Solicitation will not be made until
             any necessary investigation, which each Offeror agrees to permit by




                                                                                  Page 14
Solicitation Number: RFP 18-288 (KFT)                                    Rev 1   09/2017 (JMK)
                                        SECTION I - INSTRUCTIONS



              submitting its Offer, is made by the City as it deems necessary. A review
              of responsibility may occur up to contract award.

       26.5. The Offeror’s unreasonable failure to promptly supply information in
             connection with an inquiry with respect to responsibility may be grounds
             for a determination of non-responsibility with respect to such Offeror.

27. DETAILED EVALUATION OF OFFERS AND DETERMINATION OF
    COMPETITIVE RANGE: During deliberations, the Evaluation Panel will reach a
    consensus score for each evaluation criterion except price. The Procurement
    Officer will score the price, which will be added to the overall consensus score. The
    overall consensus scores will determine the Offerors’ rankings and which Offers are
    within the Competitive Range, when appropriate.

28. OFFERS NOT WITHIN THE COMPETITIVE RANGE: The City may notify Offerors
    of Offers that the City determined are not in the Competitive Range.

29. DISCUSSIONS WITH OFFERORS IN THE COMPETITIVE RANGE:
       29.1. The City may notify each Offeror whose Offer is in the Competitive Range
             and provide in writing any questions or requests for clarification to the
             Offeror. Each Offeror so notified may be interviewed by the City and
             asked to discuss answers to written or oral questions or provide
             clarifications to any facet of its Offer.

       29.2. Demonstrations - Offerors in the competitive range will be invited to
             construct a hands-on sample or presentation of their solution at the City
             of Phoenix. Each finalist will prepare and deliver a presentation of their
             proposed solution as more fully described in Section V – Scope of
             Workas more fully described in Section V – Scope of Work.

       29.3. To the fullest extent permitted by law, the City will not provide any
             information, financial or otherwise, to any Offeror about other Offers
             received in response to this solicitation. During discussions with Offerors
             in the Competitive Range, the City will not give Offerors specific prices or
             specific financial requirements that Offerors must meet to qualify for
             further consideration. The City may state that proposed prices are too
             high with respect to the marketplace or otherwise unacceptable. Offerors
             will not be told of their relative rankings before Contract award.




                                                                                Page 15
Solicitation Number: RFP 18-288 (KFT)                                  Rev 1   09/2017 (JMK)
                                        SECTION I - INSTRUCTIONS



 28. BEST AND FINAL OFFERS (BAFO):
       28.1. A BAFO is an option available for negotiations. Each Offeror in the
             Competitive Range, which is determined in the City’s sole discretion, may
             be afforded the opportunity to amend its Offer and make one BAFO.

       28.2. If an Offeror’s BAFO modifies its initial Offer, the modifications must be
             identified in the BAFO. The City will evaluate BAFOs based on the same
             requirements and criteria applicable to initial Offers. The City will adjust
             appropriately the initial scores for criteria that have been affected by Offer
             modifications made by a BAFO. Based on the criteria defined in the
             solicitation as weighted, the City will then perform final scoring and
             prepare final rankings.

       28.3. The Evaluation Panel will recommend the Offer that is the best value and
             most advantageous to the City based on the evaluation criteria.

       28.4. The City reserves the right to make an award to an Offeror whose Offer
             is the highest rated, best value, and most advantageous to the City based
             on the evaluation criteria, without conducting written or oral discussions
             with any Offeror, without negotiations, and without soliciting BAFOs.




                                                                                  Page 16
Solicitation Number: RFP 18-288 (KFT)                                    Rev 1   09/2017 (JMK)
                           SECTION II – STANDARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS




SECTION II – STANDARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS

  1.     DEFINITION OF KEY WORDS USED IN THE SOLICITATION:

Will, Must                     Indicates a mandatory requirement. Failure to meet these
                               mandatory requirements may result in the rejection of Offer
                               as non-responsive.

Should                         Indicates something that is recommended but not
                               mandatory. If the Offeror fails to provide recommended
                               information, the City may, at its sole option, ask the Offeror
                               to provide the information or evaluate the offer without the
                               information.

May                            Indicates something that is not mandatory but permissible.


For purposes of this solicitation, the following definitions will apply:

“A.R.S.”                       Arizona Revised Statute

“Procurement Officer”          City of Phoenix staff person responsible for the solicitation.
                               The City employee or employees who have specifically been
                               designated to act as a contact person or persons to the
                               Offeror, and responsible for monitoring and overseeing the
                               Offeror's performance under this contract.

"City"                         The City of Phoenix

"Contractor"                   The individual, partnership, or corporation who, as a result of
                               the competitive process, is awarded a contract by the City of
                               Phoenix.

"Contract” or “Agreement"      The legal agreement executed between the City of Phoenix,
                               AZ and the Offeror.

“Days”                         Means calendar days unless otherwise specified.

“Deputy Finance Director”      The contracting authority for the City of Phoenix, AZ,
or “Department Director”       authorized to sign contracts and amendments thereto on
                               behalf of the City of Phoenix, AZ.




                                                                                    Page 17
Solicitation Number: RFP 18-288 (KFT)                                      Rev 1   09/2017 (JMK)
                           SECTION II – STANDARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS




“Employer”                     Any individual or type of organization that transacts business
                               in this state, that has a license issued by an agency in this
                               state and employs one or more employees in this state.
                               Employer includes this state, any political subdivision of this
                               state and self-employed persons. In the case of an
                               independent Offeror, employer means the independent
                               Offeror and does not mean the person or organization that
                               uses contract labor. (A.R.S. 23-211).

“Offer”                        Means a response from a supplier, Offeror or service
                               provider to a solicitation request that, if awarded, binds the
                               supplier, Offeror or service provider to perform in accordance
                               with the contract. Same as bid, proposal, quotation or tender.

“Offeror”                      Any Vendor, Seller or Supplier submitting a competitive offer
                               in response to a solicitation from the City. Same as Bidder or
                               Proposer.

“Solicitation”                 Means an Invitation for Bid (IFB), Request for Proposal
                               (RFP), Request for Quotations (RFQ), and request for
                               sealed Offers or any other type of formal procurement which
                               the City makes public through advertising, mailings, or some
                               other method of communication. It is the process by which
                               the City seeks information, proposals, Offers or quotes from
                               suppliers.

“Suppliers”                    Firms, entities or individuals furnishing goods or services to
                               the City.

“Vendor” or “Seller”           A seller of goods or services.


  2. CONTRACT INTERPRETATION:
      2.1. APPLICABLE LAW: This Contract will be governed by the law of the State
           of Arizona, and suits pertaining to this Contract will be brought only in
           Federal or State courts in Maricopa County, State of Arizona.

          2.2.   CONTRACT ORDER OF PRECEDENCE: In the event of a conflict in the
                 provisions of the Contract, as accepted by the City and as they may be
                 amended, the following will prevail in the order set forth below:

                 1.    Special terms and conditions
                 2.    Standard terms and conditions



                                                                                  Page 18
Solicitation Number: RFP 18-288 (KFT)                                    Rev 1   09/2017 (JMK)
                           SECTION II – STANDARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS




              3.      Statement or scope of work
              4.      Specifications
              5.      Attachments
              6.      Submittals
              7.      Exhibits
              8.      Instructions to Offerors
              9.      Other documents referenced or included in the Invitation for Offer

       2.3.   ORGANIZATION: EMPLOYMENT DISCLAIMER: The Agreement resulting
              hereunder is not intended to constitute, create, give rise to or otherwise
              recognize a joint venture agreement or relationship, partnership or formal
              business organization of any kind, and the rights and obligations of the
              parties will be only those expressly set forth in the agreement. The parties
              agree that no persons supplied by the Contractor in the performance of
              Contractor’s obligations under the agreement are considered to be City’s
              employees and that no rights of City civil service, retirement or personnel
              rules accrue to such persons. The Contractor will have total responsibility for
              all salaries, wage bonuses, retirement, withholdings, workmen’s
              compensation, occupational disease compensation, unemployment
              compensation, other employee benefits and all taxes and premiums
              appurtenant thereto concerning such persons, and will save and hold the
              City harmless with respect thereto.

       2.4.   SEVERABILITY: The provisions of this Contract are severable to the extent
              that any provision or application held to be invalid will not affect any other
              provision or application of the contract which may remain in effect without
              the invalid provision or application.

       2.5.   NON-WAIVER OF LIABILITY: The City of Phoenix as a public entity
              supported by tax monies, in execution of its public trust, cannot agree to
              waive any lawful or legitimate right to recover monies lawfully due it.
              Therefore, any Contractor agrees that it will not insist upon or demand any
              statement whereby the City agrees to limit in advance or waive any right the
              City might have to recover actual lawful damages in any court of law under
              applicable Arizona law.

       2.6.   PAROL EVIDENCE: This Agreement is intended by the parties as a final
              expression of their agreement and is intended also as a complete and
              exclusive statement of the terms of this agreement. No course of prior
              dealings between the parties and no usage in the trade will be relevant to
              supplement or explain any term used in this Contract. Acceptance or
              acquiescence in a course of performance rendered under this contract will
              not be relevant to determine the meaning of this Contract even though the



                                                                                 Page 19
Solicitation Number: RFP 18-288 (KFT)                                   Rev 1   09/2017 (JMK)
                           SECTION II – STANDARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS




              accepting or acquiescing party has knowledge of the nature of the
              performance and opportunity to object.

 3. CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION AND OPERATION:
     3.1. RECORDS: All books, accounts, reports, files and other records relating to
          the contract will be subject at all reasonable times to inspection and audit
          by the City for three years after completion of the contract. Such records
          will be produced at a City of Phoenix office as designated by the City.

       3.2.   CONFIDENTIALITY AND DATA SECURITY:
              3.2.1. All data, regardless of form, including originals, images and
                     reproductions, prepared by, obtained by, or transmitted to Contractor
                     in connection with this Agreement is confidential, proprietary
                     information owned by the City, unless otherwise agreed upon within
                     this Agreement. Except as specifically provided in this Agreement, the
                     Contractor shall not disclose data generated in the performance of
                     the service to any third person without the prior written consent of the
                     City Manager or his/her designee.
              3.2.2. Contractor agrees to abide by all current applicable legal and industry
                     data security and privacy requirements and to notify the City
                     immediately if the scope of work changes or personal identifying
                     information or information subject to Payment Card Industry
                     Standards becomes part of the Agreement.
              3.2.3. Contractor agrees to comply with all City information security and
                     technology policies, standards, and procedures when accessing City
                     networks and computerized systems whether onsite or remotely.
              3.2.4. A violation of this Section may result in immediate termination of this
                     Agreement without notice.
              3.2.5. The obligations of Contractor under this section will survive the
                     termination of this Agreement.

       3.3.   DISCRIMINATION PROHIBITED: Contractor agrees to abide by the
              provisions of the Phoenix City Code Chapter 18, Article V as amended.

              3.3.1. Any Contractor, in performing under this contract, will not discriminate
                     against any worker, employee or applicant, or any member of the
                     public, because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, age or
                     disability nor otherwise commit an unfair employment practice. The
                     supplier and/or lessee will take action to ensure that applicants are
                     employed, and employees are dealt with during employment without
                     regard to their race, color, religion, sex, or national origin, age or
                     disability and adhere to a policy to pay equal compensation to men
                     and women who perform jobs that require substantially equal skill,



                                                                                 Page 20
Solicitation Number: RFP 18-288 (KFT)                                   Rev 1   09/2017 (JMK)
                           SECTION II – STANDARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS




                      effort and responsibility, and that are performed within the same
                      establishment under similar working conditions. Such action will
                      include but not be limited to the following: Employment, promotion,
                      demotion or transfer, recruitment or recruitment advertising, layoff or
                      termination; rates of pay or other forms of compensation; and
                      selection for training; including apprenticeship. The supplier further
                      agrees that this clause will be incorporated in all subcontracts with all
                      labor organizations furnishing skilled, unskilled and union labor, or
                      who may perform any such labor or services in connection with this
                      contract. Contractor further agrees that this clause will be
                      incorporated in all subcontracts, job- Contractor agreements or
                      subleases of this agreement entered into by supplier/lessee.

       3.4.   EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY AND PAY: In order to do business
              with the City, Contractor must comply with Phoenix City Code, 1969, Chapter
              18, Article V, as amended, Equal Employment Opportunity Requirements.
              Contractor will direct any questions in regard to these requirements to the
              Equal Opportunity Department, (602) 262-6790.

              3.4.1. For a Contractor with 35 employees or fewer: Contractor in
                     performing under this Agreement will not discriminate against any
                     worker, employee or applicant, or any member of the public, because
                     of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, age, or disability, nor
                     otherwise commit an unfair employment practice. The Contractor will
                     ensure that applicants are employed, and employees are dealt with
                     during employment without regard to their race, color, religion, sex,
                     national origin, age, or disability. Such action will include but not be
                     limited to the following: employment, promotion, demotion or transfer,
                     recruitment or recruitment advertising, layoff or termination; rates of
                     pay or other forms of compensation; and selection for training;
                     including apprenticeship. The Contractor further agrees that this
                     clause will be incorporated in all subcontracts related to this
                     Agreement that involve furnishing skilled, unskilled and union labor,
                     or who may perform any such labor or services in connection with this
                     Agreement. Contractor further agrees that this clause will be
                     incorporated in all subcontracts, Contractor agreements or subleases
                     of this agreement entered into by supplier/lessee.
              3.4.2. For a Contractor with more than 35 employees: Contractor in
                     performing under this Agreement will not discriminate against any
                     worker, employee or applicant, or any member of the public, because
                     of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, age, or disability, nor
                     otherwise commit an unfair employment practice. The Contractor will
                     ensure that applicants are employed, and employees are dealt with



                                                                                  Page 21
Solicitation Number: RFP 18-288 (KFT)                                    Rev 1   09/2017 (JMK)
                           SECTION II – STANDARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS




                     during employment without regard to their race, color, religion, sex,
                     national origin, age, or disability, and will adhere to a policy to pay
                     equal compensation to men and women who perform jobs that require
                     substantially equal skill, effort, and responsibility, and that are
                     performed within the same establishment under similar working
                     conditions. Such action will include but not be limited to the following:
                     employment, promotion, demotion or transfer, recruitment or
                     recruitment advertising, layoff or termination; rates of pay or other
                     forms of compensation; and selection for training; including
                     apprenticeship. The Contractor further agrees that this clause will be
                     incorporated in all subcontracts with all labor organizations furnishing
                     skilled, unskilled and union labor, or who may perform any such labor
                     or services in connection with this contract. Contractor further agrees
                     that this clause will be incorporated in all subcontracts, job- Contractor
                     agreements or subleases of this Agreement entered into by
                     supplier/lessee. The Contractor further agrees not to discriminate
                     against any worker, employee or applicant, or any member of the
                     public, because of sexual orientation or gender identity or expression
                     and will ensure that applicants are employed, and employees are
                     dealt with during employment without regard to their sexual
                     orientation or gender identity or expression.
              3.4.3. Documentation: Suppliers and lessees may be required to provide
                     additional documentation to the Equal Opportunity Department
                     affirming that a nondiscriminatory policy is being utilized.
              3.4.4. Monitoring: The Equal Opportunity Department shall monitor the
                     employment policies and practices of suppliers and lessees subject
                     to this article as deemed necessary. The Equal Opportunity
                     Department is authorized to conduct on-site compliance reviews of
                     selected firms, which may include an audit of personnel and payroll
                     records, if necessary.

       3.5.   LEGAL WORKER REQUIREMENTS: The City of Phoenix is prohibited by
              A.R.S. § 41-4401 from awarding a contract to any Contractor who fails, or
              whose subcontractors fail, to comply with A.R.S. § 23-214(A). Therefore,
              Contractor agrees that:
              3.5.1. Contractor and each subcontractor it uses warrants their compliance
                     with all federal immigration laws and regulations that relate to their
                     employees and their compliance with A.R.S. § 23-214, subsection A.
              3.5.2. A breach of a warranty under paragraph 1 will be deemed a material
                     breach of the contract that is subject to penalties up to and including
                     termination of the contract.
              3.5.3. The City of Phoenix retains the legal right to inspect the papers of any
                     Contractor or subcontractor employee who works on the contract to



                                                                                  Page 22
Solicitation Number: RFP 18-288 (KFT)                                    Rev 1   09/2017 (JMK)
                           SECTION II – STANDARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS




                      ensure that the Contractor or subcontractor is complying with the
                      warranty under paragraph 1.

       3.6.   LICENSES AND PERMITS: Contractor will keep current Federal, State, and
              local licenses and permits required for the operation of the business
              conducted by the Contractor as applicable to this contract.

       3.7.   ADVERTISING: Contractor will not advertise or publish news releases
              concerning this contract without the prior written consent of the Department
              Director, and the City will not unreasonably withhold permission.

       3.8.   HEALTH, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SAFETY REQUIREMENTS: The
              Contractor’s products, services and facilities will be in full compliance with
              all applicable Federal, State and local health, environmental and safety laws,
              regulations, standards, codes and ordinances, regardless of whether or not
              they are referred to by the City. At the request of City representatives, the
              Contractor will provide the City:
              3.8.1. Environmental, safety and health regulatory compliance documents
                        (written safety programs, training records, permits, etc.) applicable
                        to services provided by the Contractor in this contract.
              3.8.2. A list of all federal, state, or local (EPA, OSHA, Maricopa County,
                        etc.) citations or notice of violations issued against their firm or their
                        subcontractors including dates, reasons, dispositions and
                        resolutions.

              The City will have the right, but not the obligation to inspect the facilities,
              transportation vehicles or vessels, containers and disposal facilities provided
              by the Contractor or subcontractor. The City will also have the right to inspect
              operations conducted by the Contractor or subcontractor in the performance
              of this agreement. The City further reserves the right to make unannounced
              inspections of the Contractor’s facilities (during normal business hours).

       3.9.   COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS: Contractor agrees to fully observe and comply
              with all applicable Federal, State and local laws, regulations, standards,
              codes and ordinances when performing under this Contract regardless of
              whether they are being referred to by the City. Contractor agrees to permit
              City inspection of Contractor’s business records, including personnel records
              to verify any such compliance. Because the Contractor will be acting as an
              independent Contractor, the City assumes no responsibility for the
              Contractor’s acts.

      3.10.   LAWFUL PRESENCE REQUIREMENT: Pursuant to A.R.S. §§ 1-501 and -
              502, the City of Phoenix is prohibited from awarding a contract to any natural



                                                                                    Page 23
Solicitation Number: RFP 18-288 (KFT)                                      Rev 1   09/2017 (JMK)
                           SECTION II – STANDARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS




              person who cannot establish that he or she is lawfully present in the United
              States. In order to establish lawful presence, this person must produce
              qualifying identification and sign a City-provided affidavit affirming that the
              identification provided is genuine. This requirement will be imposed at the
              time of contract award. In the event the prevailing responder is unable to
              satisfy this requirement, the City will offer the award to the next-highest
              scoring responder. The law does not apply to fictitious entities such as
              corporations, partnerships and limited liability companies.

       3.11. NO ISRAEL BOYCOTT: By entering into this contract, the Contractor
             certifies that they are not currently engaged in, and agrees for the duration
             of the contract to not engage in, a boycott of Israel.

       3.12. CONTINUATION DURING DISPUTES: Contractor agrees that
             notwithstanding the existence of any dispute between the parties, insofar as
             is possible, under the terms of the contract, the Contractor will continue to
             perform the obligations required of Contractor during the continuation of any
             such dispute unless enjoined or prohibited by an Arizona Court of competent
             jurisdiction.

       3.13. EMERGENCY PURCHASES: The City reserves the right to purchase from
             other sources those items which are required on an emergency basis and
             cannot be supplied immediately from stock by the Contractor.

       3.14. STRICT PERFORMANCE: Failure of either party to insist upon the strict
             performance of any item or condition of the contract or to exercise or delay
             the exercise of any right or remedy provided in the contract, or by law, or the
             acceptance of materials or services, obligations imposed by this contract or
             by law will not be deemed a waiver of any right of either party to insist upon
             the strict performance of the contract.

 4. COSTS AND PAYMENTS:
     4.1. GENERAL: Any prompt payment terms offered must be clearly noted by the
          Contractor on all invoices submitted to the City for the payment of goods or
          services received. The City will make every effort to process payment for the
          purchase of material or services within thirty to forty-five calendar days after
          receipt of a correct invoice, unless a good faith dispute exists to any
          obligation to pay all or a portion of the account. Payment terms are specified
          in the Offer.

       4.2.   PAYMENT DEDUCTION OFFSET PROVISION: Contractor acknowledges
              that the City Charter requires that no payment be made to any Contractor as
              long as there is an outstanding obligation due to the City. Contractor agrees



                                                                                 Page 24
Solicitation Number: RFP 18-288 (KFT)                                   Rev 1   09/2017 (JMK)
                           SECTION II – STANDARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS




              that any obligation it owes to the City will be offset against any payment due
              to the Contractor from the City.

       4.3.   LATE SUBMISSION OF CLAIM BY CONTRACTOR: The City will not honor
              any invoices or claims which are tendered one year after the last item of the
              account accrued.

       4.4.   DISCOUNTS: Payment discounts will be computed from the date of
              receiving acceptable products, materials and/or services or correct invoice,
              whichever is later to the date payment is mailed.

       4.5.   NO ADVANCE PAYMENTS: Advance payments are not authorized.
              Payment will be made only for actual services or commodities that have been
              received.

       4.6.   FUND APPROPRIATION CONTINGENCY: The Vendor recognizes that any
              agreement entered into will commence upon the day first provided and
              continue in full force and effect until termination in accordance with its
              provisions. The Vendor and the City herein recognize that the continuation
              of any contract after the close of any given fiscal year of the City, which ends
              on June 30th of each year, will be subject to the approval of the budget of
              the City providing for or covering such contract item as an expenditure
              therein. The City does not represent that said budget item will be actually
              adopted, said determination being the determination of the City Council at
              the time of the adoption of the budget.

       4.7.   MAXIMUM PRICES: The City will not be invoiced at prices higher than those
              stated in any contract resulting from this Offer. Contractor certifies, by
              signing this Offer that the prices offered are no higher than the lowest price
              the Contractor charges other buyers for similar quantities under similar
              conditions. Contractor further agrees that any reductions in the price of the
              goods or services covered by this Offer and occurring after award will apply
              to the undelivered balance. The Contractor will promptly notify the City of
              such price reductions.

 5. CONTRACT CHANGES:
     5.1. CONTRACT AMENDMENTS: Contracts will be modified only by a written
          contract amendment signed by persons duly authorized to enter into
          contracts on behalf of the Contractor. No verbal agreement or conversation
          with any officer, agent, or employee of the City either before or after
          execution of the contract, will affect or modify any of the terms or obligations
          contained or to be contained in the contract. Any such verbal agreements or
          conversation will be considered as unofficial information and in no way



                                                                                 Page 25
Solicitation Number: RFP 18-288 (KFT)                                   Rev 1   09/2017 (JMK)
                           SECTION II – STANDARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS




              binding upon the City or the Contractor. All agreements will be in writing and
              contract changes will be by written amendment signed by both parties.

       5.2.   ASSIGNMENT – DELEGATION: No right or interest in this contract nor
              monies due hereunder will be assigned in whole or in part without written
              permission of the City, and no delegation of any duty of Contractor will be
              made without prior written permission of the City, which may be withheld for
              good cause. Any assignment or delegation made in violation of this section
              will be void.

       5.3.   NON-EXCLUSIVE CONTRACT: Any contract resulting from this solicitation
              will be awarded with the understanding and agreement that it is for the sole
              convenience of the City. The City reserves the right to obtain like goods or
              services from another source when necessary.

       5.4.   AUTHORIZED CHANGES: The City reserves the right at any time to make
              changes in any one or more of the following: (a) specifications; (b) methods
              of shipment or packing; (c) place of delivery; (d) time of delivery; and/or (e)
              quantities. If the change causes an increase or decrease in the cost of or the
              time required for performance, an equitable adjustment may be made in the
              price or delivery schedule, or both. Any claim for adjustment will be deemed
              waived unless asserted in writing within thirty days from the receipt of the
              change. Price increases or extensions of delivery time will not be binding on
              the City unless evidenced in writing and approved by the Department
              Director or delegate prior to the institution of the change.

 6. RISK OF LOSS AND LIABILITY:
     6.1. TITLE AND RISK OF LOSS: The title and risk of loss of material or service
          will not pass to the City until the City actually receives the material or service
          at the point of delivery; and such loss, injury, or destruction will not release
          seller from any obligation hereunder.

       6.2.   ACCEPTANCE: All material or service is subject to final inspection and
              acceptance by the City. Material or service failing to conform to the
              specifications of this contract will be held at Contractor's risk and may be
              returned to the Contractor. If so returned, all costs are the responsibility of
              the Contractor. Noncompliance will conform to the cancellation clause set
              forth in this document.

       6.3.   FORCE MAJEURE: Except for payment of sums due, neither party will be
              liable to the other nor deemed in default under this contract if and to the
              extent that such party's performance of this contract is prevented by reason
              of force majeure. The term "force majeure" means an occurrence that is



                                                                                 Page 26
Solicitation Number: RFP 18-288 (KFT)                                   Rev 1   09/2017 (JMK)
                           SECTION II – STANDARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS




              beyond the control of the party affected and occurs without its fault or
              negligence. Force majeure will not include late performance by a
              subcontractor unless the delay arises out of a force majeure occurrence in
              accordance with this force majeure term and condition.

              If either party is delayed at any time in the progress of the work by force
              majeure, the delayed party will notify the other party in writing of such delay,
              as soon as is practical, of the commencement thereof and will specify the
              causes of such delay in such notice. Such notice will be hand-delivered or
              mailed certified-return receipt and will make a specific reference to this
              provision, thereby invoking its provisions. The delayed party will cause such
              delay to cease as soon as practicable and will notify the other party in writing
              when it has done so. The time of completion will be extended by contract
              modification for a period of time equal to the time that results or effects of
              such delay prevent the delayed party from performing in accordance with
              this contract.

       6.4.   LOSS OF MATERIALS: The City does not assume any responsibility, at any
              time, for the protection of or for loss of materials, from the time that the
              contract operations have commenced until the final acceptance of the work
              by the City.

 7. CITY’S CONTRACTUAL RIGHTS:
     7.1. RIGHT OF ASSURANCE: Whenever one party to this contract in good faith
           has reason to question the other party's intent to perform, the former party
           may demand that the other party give a written assurance of this intent to
           perform. In the event that a demand is made and no written assurance is
           given within five days, the demanding party may treat this failure as an
           anticipatory repudiation of this contract.

       7.2.   NON-EXCLUSIVE REMEDIES: The rights and remedies of the City under
              this Contract are non-exclusive.

       7.3.   DEFAULT IN ONE INSTALLMENT TO CONSTITUTE BREACH: Each
              installment or lot of the agreement is dependent on every other installment
              or lot and a delivery of non-conforming goods or a default of any nature under
              one installment or lot will impair the value of the whole agreement and
              constitutes a total breach of the agreement as a whole.
       7.4.   ON TIME DELIVERY: Because the City is providing services which involve
              health, safety and welfare of the general public, delivery time is of the
              essence. Delivery must be made in accordance with the delivery schedule
              promised by the Contractor.




                                                                                 Page 27
Solicitation Number: RFP 18-288 (KFT)                                   Rev 1   09/2017 (JMK)
                           SECTION II – STANDARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS




       7.5.   DEFAULT: In case of default by the Contractor, the City may, by written
              notice, cancel this contract and repurchase from another source and may
              recover the excess costs by (1) deduction from an unpaid balance due; (2)
              collection against the Offer and/or performance bond, or (3) a combination
              of the aforementioned remedies or other remedies as provided by law.

       7.6.   COVENANT AGAINST CONTINGENT FEES: Seller warrants that no
              person or selling agent has been employed or retained to solicit or secure
              this contract upon an agreement or understanding for a commission,
              percentage, brokerage, or contingent fee, excepting bona fide employers or
              bona fide established commercial or selling agencies maintained by the
              seller for the purpose of securing business. For breach or violation of this
              warranty, the City will have the right to annul the contract without liability or
              in its discretion to deduct from the contract price a consideration, or
              otherwise recover the full amount of such commission, brokerage or
              contingent fee.

       7.7.   COST JUSTIFICATION: In the event only one response is received, the City
              may require that the Contractor submit a cost proposal in sufficient detail for
              the City to perform a cost/price analysis to determine if the Offer price is fair
              and reasonable.

 8. CONTRACT TERMINATION:
     8.1. GRATUITIES: The City may, by written notice to the Contractor, cancel this
          contract if it is found that gratuities, in the form of entertainment, gifts or
          otherwise, were offered or given by the Contractor or any agent or
          representative of the Contractor, to any officer or employee of the City
          making any determinations with respect to the performing of such contract.
          In the event this contract is canceled by the City pursuant to this provision,
          the City will be entitled, in addition to any other rights and remedies, to
          recover or withhold from the Contractor the amount of the gratuity.

       8.2.   CONDITIONS AND CAUSES FOR TERMINATION:
              8.2.1 This contract may be terminated at any time by mutual written consent,
                     or by the City, with or without cause, upon giving thirty-day written
                     notice to Contractor. The City at its convenience, by written notice,
                     may terminate this contract, in whole or in part. If this contract is
                     terminated, the City will be liable only for payment under the payment
                     provisions of this contract for services rendered and accepted
                     material received by the City before the effective date of termination.
                     Title to all materials, work-in-process and completed but
                     undeliverable goods, will pass to the City after costs are claimed and
                     allowed. The Seller will submit detailed cost claims in an acceptable



                                                                                  Page 28
Solicitation Number: RFP 18-288 (KFT)                                    Rev 1   09/2017 (JMK)
                           SECTION II – STANDARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS




                     manner and will permit the City to examine such books and records
                     as may be necessary in order to verify the reasonableness of any
                     claims.
              8.2.2 The City reserves the right to cancel the whole or any part of this
                     contract due to failure of Contractor to carry out any term, promise, or
                     condition of the contract. The City will issue a written notice of default
                     to Contractor for acting or failing to act as in any of the following:

                         In the opinion of the City, Contractor provides personnel who do
                          not meet the requirements of the contract;
                         In the opinion of the City, Contractor fails to perform adequately
                          the stipulations, conditions or services/specifications required in
                          this contract;
                         In the opinion of the City, Contractor attempts to impose on the
                          City personnel or materials, products or workmanship, which is of
                          an unacceptable quality;
                         Contractor fails to furnish the required service and/or product
                          within the time stipulated in the contract;
                         In the opinion of the City, Contractor fails to make progress in the
                          performance of the requirements of the contract and/or fails to give
                          the City a positive indication that Contractor will or can perform to
                          the requirements of the contract.

       8.3.   CONTRACT CANCELLATION: All parties acknowledge that this contract is
              subject to cancellation by the City of Phoenix pursuant to the provision of
              Section 38-511, Arizona Revised Statutes.

 9. STATE AND LOCAL TRANSACTION PRIVILEGE TAXES: In accordance with
    applicable state and local law, transaction privilege taxes may be applicable to this
    transaction. The state and local transaction privilege (sales) tax burden is on the
    person who is conducting business in Arizona and the City of Phoenix. The legal
    liability to remit the tax is on the person conducting business in Arizona. Any failure
    by the Contractor to collect applicable taxes from the City will not relieve the
    Contractor from its obligation to remit taxes. It is the responsibility of the prospective
    bidder to determine any applicable taxes. The City will look at the price or offer
    submitted and will not deduct, add or alter pricing based on speculation or application
    of any taxes, nor will the City provide advice or guidance. If you have questions
    regarding your tax liability, please seek advice from a tax professional prior to
    submitting        your      bid.    You     may       also    find      information     at
    https://www.phoenix.gov/finance/plt or https://www.azdor.gov/Business.aspx. Once
    your bid is submitted, the Offer is valid for the time specified in this Solicitation,
    regardless of mistake or omission of tax liability. If the City finds over payment of a
    project due to tax consideration that was not due, the Contractor will be liable to the



                                                                                  Page 29
Solicitation Number: RFP 18-288 (KFT)                                    Rev 1   09/2017 (JMK)
                           SECTION II – STANDARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS




     City for that amount, and by contracting with the City agrees to remit any
     overpayments back to the City for miscalculations on taxes included in a bid price.

 10. TAX INDEMNIFICATION: Contractor will, and require the same of all subcontractors,
     pay all federal, state and local taxes applicable to its operation and any persons
     employed by the Contractor. Contractor will, and require the same of all
     subcontractors, hold the City harmless from any responsibility for taxes, damages
     and interest, if applicable, contributions required under federal, and/or state and local
     laws and regulations and any other costs including transaction privilege taxes,
     unemployment compensation insurance, Social Security and Worker’s
     Compensation.

 11. TAX RESPONSIBILITY QUALIFICATION: Contractor may be required to establish,
     to the satisfaction of City, that any and all fees and taxes due to the City or the State
     of Arizona for any License or Transaction Privilege taxes, Use taxes or similar excise
     taxes, are currently paid (except for matters under legal protest). Contractor agrees
     to a waiver of the confidentiality provisions contained in the City Finance Code and
     any similar confidentiality provisions contained in Arizona statutes relative to State
     Transaction Privilege Taxes or Use Taxes. Contractor agrees to provide written
     authorization to the City Finance Department and to the Arizona State Department of
     Revenue to release tax information relative to Arizona Transaction Privilege Taxes
     or Arizona Use Taxes in order to assist the Department in evaluating Contractor’s
     qualifications for and compliance with contract for duration of the term of contract.




                                                                                 Page 30
Solicitation Number: RFP 18-288 (KFT)                                   Rev 1   09/2017 (JMK)
                            SECTION III – SPECIAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS




SECTION III – SPECIAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS

1.     INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS: Consultant grants to City a nonexclusive,
       non-transferable (except to a wholly-owned subsidiary of the City), and royalty-free
       right and license to install, use, and maintain the software, application(s), or similar
       technology to be provided to the City pursuant to this agreement (collectively, the
       “Deliverables”) for the City’s internal or business purposes. The City shall further
       have the right to reproduce the Deliverables to the extent reasonably necessary for
       such purposes. The City shall not, without the Consultant’s prior written consent,
       transfer or sub-license its foregoing license rights (except to a wholly-owned
       subsidiary of the City) or reverse engineer, decompile, or otherwise attempt to
       derive source code from the Deliverables.

2.     STRICT PERFORMANCE: Either party’s failure to insist on strict performance of
       any term or condition of the Contract shall not be deemed a waiver of that term or
       condition even if the party accepting or acquiescing in the nonconforming
       performance knows of the nature of the performance and fails to object to it; except
       where enforcement of this provision would be in conflict with the scope or proposal.

3.     WARRANTY: Contractor specifically warrants that all Deliverables shall be free of
       any condition which could make them fail to perform in material accordance with
       this agreement (each such condition to be called an “Error”) for a period of nine
       months after actual installation of the software (the “Warranty Period”). If the City
       reports to Contractor any errors in the system during the Warranty Period, then
       Contractor shall, at its expense, use reasonable commercial efforts to modify,
       replace, or otherwise remedy the faulty Deliverable as quickly as reasonably
       practicable. Where possible, both parties shall attempt to resolve Errors through
       telephone instruction, issuance of updated documentation, corrective code, or
       hardware replacement or modification.

4.     STANDARDS AND PRACTICES: Deliverables shall conform to the generally
       accepted standards and practices of the trade or industry involved. All work shall
       be executed by personnel skilled in their respective lines of work.

5.     QUALIFICATIONS: Contractor represents that it is fully experienced and properly
       qualified; is in compliance with all applicable license requirements; and, is
       equipped, organized, and financed to provide and/or perform the goods and/or
       services purchased by the City pursuant to this agreement.




                                                                                  Page 31
Solicitation Number: RFP 18-288 (KFT)                                    Rev 1   09/2017 (JMK)
                            SECTION III – SPECIAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS




6.     INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY WARRANTIES: Contractor warrants that:

              (a) The Deliverables will be free of the rightful claim of any third party for or
                  by way of infringement or misappropriation of patent, copyright, trade
                  secret, trademark or other rights arising under the laws of the United
                  States;

              (b) No act or omission of Contractor will result in a third party holding any
                  other claim that interferes with the City’s enjoyment or use of the
                  Deliverables;

              (c) Contractor owns or possesses all right(s), titles(s) and license(s)
                  necessary to perform its obligations hereunder; and

7.     INDEMNIFICATION – PATENT, COPYRIGHT AND TRADEMARK: In addition to
       any other indemnification required by this Agreement, Contractor agrees to defend,
       at its own expense, and to indemnify and hold harmless the City and its officers,
       agents, and employees from and against all judgments, claims, damages, suits,
       liabilities, settlements, costs and demands, including reasonable attorneys’ fees,
       suffered or incurred by the City as a result of any claim that the Deliverables infringe
       the patents, copyrights, or other intellectual property rights of third parties, provided
       that Contractor is notified in writing of such claim. The City will reasonably
       cooperate with Contractor, at Contractor’s expense, to facilitate the settlement or
       defense of such claim. Without limiting in any way the Contractor obligations set
       forth herein, if, as a result of any claim of infringement with respect to the
       Deliverables, the City is enjoined from using the Deliverables, or if Contractor
       reasonably believes that the Deliverables are likely to become the subject of a claim
       of infringement, Contractor may, at Contractor’s option and expense, (1) procure
       the right for the City to continue to use the Deliverables, or (2) replace or modify the
       Deliverables so as to make them non-infringing and of equal or superior
       functionality and capability for the purpose(s) for which the Deliverables were
       provided.

       The Contractor’s obligation to indemnify, defend, and hold harmless the City
       pursuant to this subsection shall be reduced to the extent the applicable
       infringement is caused or alleged to be caused by the alteration or modification of
       the Deliverablesby the City (including its employees and contractors other than the




                                                                                   Page 32
Solicitation Number: RFP 18-288 (KFT)                                     Rev 1   09/2017 (JMK)
                            SECTION III – SPECIAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS




       Contractor and its subcontractors) other than in connection with the ordinary or
       expected use of the Deliverables.

8.     LICENSES AND PERMITS: Contractor shall keep current all federal, state, and
       local licenses and permits required for the operation of the business conducted by
       the Contractor as applicable to this contract.

9.     ADVERTISING: Except as required by law, Contractor shall not publish, release,
       disclose or announce to any member of the public, press, official body, or any other
       third party any information or documents concerning this Agreement, the
       Deliverables, or any part thereof without the prior written consent of the City. The
       name of any City site on which services are performed by the Contractor pursuant
       to this Agreement shall not be used in any advertising or other promotional context
       by Contractor without the prior written consent of the City.

10.    PRICE: The price for each “Work Assignment” identified in the Scope of Work (each
       a “Work Assignment”) will be a firm fixed price unless the associated Detailed
       Scope of Work explicitly identifies the Work Assignment, or individual tasks under
       the Work Assignment, as being on a time-and-materials basis. Work Assignments
       and individual tasks that are identified as being on a time-and-materials basis will
       also have an identified maximum total cost. While time-and-materials work will be
       paid based on actual hours worked and actual costs incurred, with hourly rates
       identified in the Work Assignment’s Detailed Scope of Work, if the cost of time-and-
       materials work exceeds the maximum total cost, any excess cost will be the
       Contractor’s responsibility. Price is inclusive of all applicable transaction privilege
       taxes (sales taxes).

11.    METHOD OF ORDERING (PURCHASE ORDERS): Contractor will deliver items
       and/or services only upon receipt of a written purchase order issued by the
       Department. All Contractor invoices and packing/delivery tickets must include the
       City of Phoenix purchase order number.

12.    METHOD OF INVOICING:             Invoice must be emailed in .pdf format to
       invoices@phoenix.gov and must include the following:
           City purchase order number or shopping cart number.
           Items listed individually by the written description and part number.
           Unit price, extended and totaled.
           Quantity ordered, back ordered, and shipped.
           Invoice number and date.


                                                                                 Page 33
Solicitation Number: RFP 18-288 (KFT)                                   Rev 1   09/2017 (JMK)
                            SECTION III – SPECIAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS




              Requesting department name and "ship-to" address.
              Payment terms.
              FOB terms.
              Remit to address.
              Completed Work Assignment Acceptance Certificate.

13.    METHOD OF PAYMENT: Payment for each Work Assignment will be made
       following completion and acceptance by the City, as documented by the City’s
       approval of an Acceptance Certificate. Upon completion of tasks associated with
       the Work Assignment, the Contractor will provide the City with an invoice not to
       exceed the amount of the Work Assignment’s price, an itemization of any completed
       time-and-materials work (indicating the hours worked and hourly rate that shall not
       exceed the approved hourly rate), and a certification that the Work Assignment is
       complete and that payment of the invoice represents settlement of Contractor
       claims associated with the Work Assignment.

14.    PARTIAL PAYMENTS: Partial payments are authorized on individual written
       purchase orders. Payment will be made for partial deliveries made and accepted
       by the City. Payment will be made only for the actual amount of items or services
       received and accepted by the City.

15.    VALUE ENGINEERING CHANGE PROPOSALS: A Value Engineering Change
       Proposal (VECP) is defined as a proposal that requires a change to the Contract to
       implement, that would result in reducing the overall Contract cost to the City without
       impairing essential functions or characteristics, and that does not only involve a
       change in deliverable end item quantities. During the course of work, the Contractor
       may voluntarily submit VECPs, including an itemization of the projected Contract
       cost savings. Should the City, in its sole discretion, accept the VECP, the Contract
       cost will be reduced by 50% of the VECP savings amount, allowing the Contractor
       to retain 50% of the VECP savings. Projected ongoing operational savings are not
       eligible for VECPs.

       This provision does not apply to any Contract change that impairs essential
       functions/characteristics (e.g., eliminating a business process from the Scope of
       Work), or reduces expected gains in business process efficiency, as determined by
       the City, or involves a change in deliverable end item quantities only (e.g., reducing
       the number of hours of on-call report development support or number of software
       licenses) – all savings from such changes will be savings to the City only.




                                                                                 Page 34
Solicitation Number: RFP 18-288 (KFT)                                   Rev 1   09/2017 (JMK)
                            SECTION III – SPECIAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS




16.    CONFIDENTIALITY AND DATA SECURITY:

       16.1. All data, regardless of form, including originals, images and reproductions,
             prepared by, obtained by, or transmitted to Contractor in connection with this
             Agreement is confidential, proprietary information owned by the City. Except
             as specifically provided in this Agreement, the Contractor shall not disclose
             data generated in the performance of the service to any third person without
             the prior written consent of the City Manager or his/her designee.

       16.2. Personal identifying information, financial account information, protected
             health information, or restricted City information, whether electronic format
             or hard copy, must be secured and protected at all times to avoid
             unauthorized access. At a minimum, Contractor must encrypt and/or
             password-protect electronic files. This includes data saved to laptop
             computers, computerized devices, handheld devices, networking devices,
             removable storage devices, or other electronic media, as well as data in
             transit, such as during email or file transfer.

       16.3. When personal identifying information, financial account information,
             protected health information, or restricted City information, regardless of its
             format, is no longer necessary, the information must be redacted or
             destroyed through appropriate and secure methods that ensure the
             information cannot be viewed, accessed, or reconstructed. Contractor must
             properly dispose of such information by taking reasonable measures to
             protect against unauthorized access to or use of the information in
             connection with its disposal.

       16.4. This includes implementing and monitoring compliance with policies and
             procedures that require the redaction, destruction, erasure, or other disposal
             of paper documents and electronic media containing personal identifying
             information, financial account information, protected health information, or
             restricted City information so that these types of information cannot
             practicably be read or reconstructed. Contractor will provide the City with its
             information security policies and procedures regarding the redaction,
             destruction, erasure, or other disposal of documents and information.

       16.5. In the event that data collected or obtained by the Contractor in connection
             with this Agreement is suspected to have been compromised, Contractor
             shall notify the contracting City department immediately. Contractor agrees
             to reimburse the City for any costs incurred by the City to investigate and
             respond to potential breaches of this data, including, where applicable, the



                                                                                Page 35
Solicitation Number: RFP 18-288 (KFT)                                  Rev 1   09/2017 (JMK)
                            SECTION III – SPECIAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS




              cost of notifying individuals who may be impacted by the breach, attorneys’
              fees, and for any monetary damages or penalties the City is assessed. In
              case of a breach or critical breach of the City’s information, it will be the City,
              not the Contractor that will inform any and all individuals affected by any such
              breach. Only upon prior written consent of the City, or at the specific
              direction of the City, will the Contractor notify individuals affected by a breach
              or critical breach of the City’s information.

       16.6. Contractor agrees that the City may assess or test the security of any
             applications, web services, or computerized systems created or provided by
             the Contractor that process, store, or transmit City information. If the City
             finds vulnerabilities that are rated medium or more critical by the Common
             Vulnerability Scoring System (CVSS) in these applications, web services, or
             computerized systems, the Contractor agrees to remediate the vulnerability
             at no cost to the City and within an agreed-upon timeframe not to exceed 90
             days. To clarify, the Contractor must remediate found vulnerabilities in
             computerized systems they provide; Contractor is not liable for remediating
             any vulnerability found in the City’s network or computing infrastructure used
             to support the applications, web services, or systems created or provided by
             the Contractor.

       16.7. Contractor agrees to abide by all current applicable legal and industry data
             security and privacy requirements. These may include, to the extent
             applicable, Arizona Revised Statutes §44-7501 — Notification of breach of
             security system; Arizona Revised Statutes §44-7601 — Discarding and
             disposing of records containing personal identifying information; Health
             Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA) Privacy and
             Security Rules; Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical
             Health (HITECH) Act, and Payment Card Industry Data Security Standards.

       16.8. Contractor agrees to demonstrate that they have adequate controls and
             safeguards when they host or process personal identifying information,
             financial account information, protected health information, or restricted City
             information. This may be accomplished through a third-party audit utilizing
             a widely recognized auditing standard, such as Statement on Standards for




                                                                                    Page 36
Solicitation Number: RFP 18-288 (KFT)                                      Rev 1   09/2017 (JMK)
                            SECTION III – SPECIAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS




              Attestation Engagements (SSAE) No. 16, or through earning industry
              certification, such as ISO/IEC 27001.

       16.9. Contractor agrees to comply with all City information security and technology
             policies, standards, and procedures when accessing City networks and
             computerized systems whether onsite or remotely.

       16.10. Contractor agrees that the requirements of this Section shall be incorporated
              into all subcontractor agreements entered into by the Contractor. It is further
              agreed that a violation of this Section shall be deemed to cause irreparable
              harm that justifies injunctive relief in court. A violation of this Section may
              result in immediate termination of this Agreement without notice. The
              obligations of Contractor under this Section shall survive the termination of
              this Agreement.

17.    VENDOR PROFILE CHANGES: It is the responsibility of the Contractor to
       promptly update their profile in procurePHX. If Contractor’s legal identify has
       changed, the Procurement Officer must be notified immediately. Failure to do so
       may result in non-payment of invoices and contract termination.

18.    AUTHORIZATION OF WORK AND CHANGE CONTROL: The City will authorize
       work through a written Notice to Proceed document to be issued by the Budget &
       Research Department Director (Director) for each Work Assignment. Performance
       of a Work Assignment is to commence only upon receipt of the written Notice to
       Proceed. Any work or materials furnished by the Contractor without such written
       authorization first being given will be at the Contractor’s own risk, cost, and
       expense, and the Contractor agrees to make no claim for compensation for such
       work or materials furnished.

       The Contractor shall notify the department of any change requested by City staff
       that would result in an extension of the delivery date for a Work Assignment, or that
       would result in additional cost to the City, or that would materially modify the scope
       of a Work Assignment. The Contractor shall not proceed with the requested change
       until the Deputy Finance Director issues a written contract amendment.

       The City may allow the Contractor variances from the Work Assignment detailed
       tasks and deliverables that do not impact the Planned Project Structure, the total




                                                                                 Page 37
Solicitation Number: RFP 18-288 (KFT)                                   Rev 1   09/2017 (JMK)
                            SECTION III – SPECIAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS




       Work Assignment fee or delivery date. Such changes shall only require the written
       authorization of the City’s Project Manager.

       Work Assignments may include “Optional Tasks”, which will be explicitly identified
       as such in the Work Assignment Detailed Scope of Work. The Consultant must
       obtain a written contract amendment, approved by the Deputy Finance Director
       prior to initiating any Optional Task.

19.    CONTRACTOR ASSIGNMENTS: The Contractor hereby agrees that any of its
       employees who may be assigned to City sites to satisfy obligations under this
       contract will be used exclusively for that purpose during the hours when they are
       working in areas covered by this Contract and will perform no work at other City of
       Phoenix facilities. In the event that other services, in addition to or separate from
       the services specified herein, may be deemed necessary by the Deputy Finance
       Director or Department Director or his authorized representative, the Contractor
       may be requested to perform the additional or special service.

20.    POST AWARD CONFERENCE: A post award conference may be held by the
       Department prior to commencement of any work on the project. The purpose of this
       conference is to discuss critical elements of the work schedule and operational
       problems and procedures.

21.    SUSPENSIONS OF WORK: The Department reserves the right to suspend work
       wholly or in part if deemed necessary for the best interest of the City. This
       suspension will be without compensation to the Contractor, other than to adjust the
       contract completion/delivery requirements.

22.    PERFORMANCE INTERFERENCE: Contractor will notify the City’s department
       contact immediately of any occurrence and/or condition that interferes with the full
       performance of the contract, and confirm it in writing within 24 hours.

              Department Contact: Christopher Fazio
              Phone: 602-534-9814

23.    TRANSITION OF CONTRACT: At least thirty days prior to the expiration or
       termination of this contract vendor must provide all services reasonably necessary
       to ensure an orderly and efficient transition of the services, in whole or in part, to
       another provider and the City, including a transition plan if required by the scope.
       Vendor agrees to provide to the city all files in ASCII format (or other city-



                                                                                 Page 38
Solicitation Number: RFP 18-288 (KFT)                                   Rev 1   09/2017 (JMK)
                            SECTION III – SPECIAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS




       designated and appropriate format), supplies, data, records, and any other
       properties or materials of the City, which the City owns or has rights to pursuant to
       this contract and which are in the possession of vendor. The provisions of this
       section will survive the expiration or termination of this contract. Within the City’s
       sole discretion, the vendor agrees to a month-to-month extension at the same
       price(s) for continued services or goods deemed as essential by the City.

24.    CONTRACTOR AND SUB CONTRACTOR WORKERS BACKGROUND
       SCREENING : Contractor agrees that all Contractor and sub Contractors’ workers
       (collectively “Contractor’s Worker(s))” that Contractor furnishes to the City pursuant
       to this agreement will be subject to background and security checks and screening
       (collectively “Background Screening”) at Contractor’s sole cost and expense as set
       forth in this section. The background screening provided by Contractor will comply
       with all applicable laws, rules and regulations. Contractor further agrees that the
       background screening required in this section is necessary to preserve and protect
       the public health, safety and welfare. The background screening requirements set
       forth in this section are the minimum requirements for the agreement. The City in
       no way warrants that these minimum requirements are sufficient to protect
       Contractor from any liabilities that may arise out of the Contractor’s services under
       this agreement or Contractor’s failure to comply with this section. Therefore, in
       addition to the specific measures set forth below, Contractor and its contract
       workers will take such other reasonable, prudent and necessary measures to
       further preserve and protect public health, safety and welfare when providing
       services under this agreement.

25.    BACKGROUND SCREENING REQUIREMENTS AND CRITERIA: Because of the
       varied types of services performed, the City has established three levels of risk and
       associated background screening. The risk level and background screening
       required for this agreement is Maximum risk level.

       25.1. Minimum Risk Level
             A minimum risk background screening will be performed when the contract
             worker:
              will not have direct access to City facilities or information systems; or
              will not work with vulnerable adults or children; or
              when access to City facilities is escorted by City’s workers.




                                                                                 Page 39
Solicitation Number: RFP 18-288 (KFT)                                   Rev 1   09/2017 (JMK)
                            SECTION III – SPECIAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS




              The background screening for minimum risk will consist of the screening
              required by A.R.S.§ 41-4401 and following to verify legal Arizona worker
              status.

       25.2. Standard Risk Level
             A standard risk background screening will be performed when the contract
             worker’s work assignment will:
              require a badge or key for access to City facilities; or
              allow any access to sensitive, confidential records, personal identifying
                information or restricted City information; or
              allow unescorted access to City facilities during normal and non-business
                hours.

              The background screening for this standard risk level will include the
              background screening required for the minimum risk level and a background
              check for real identity/legal name, and will include felony and misdemeanor
              records from any county in the United States, the state of Arizona, plus any
              other jurisdiction where the Contractor worker has lived at any time in the
              preceding seven years from the contract worker’s proposed date of hire.

       25.3. Maximum Risk Level
             A maximum risk background screening will be performed when the contract
             worker’s work assignment will:
              have any contact with vulnerable people such as children, youth, elderly,
                or individuals with disabilities; or
              have any responsibility for the receipt of payment of City funds or control
                of inventories, assets, or records that are at risk of misappropriation; or
              have unescorted access to City data centers, money rooms, or high-
                valve equipment rooms; or have access to private residences; or
              have access to Homeland Defense Bureau identified critical
                infrastructure sites/facilities.

              The background screening for this maximum risk level will include the
              background screening required for the standard risk level, plus a sexual
              offender search, a credit check, and driving record search for the preceding
              seven years from the contract worker’s proposed date of hire. Contract
              workers who work directly with children or vulnerable adults are also subject




                                                                               Page 40
Solicitation Number: RFP 18-288 (KFT)                                 Rev 1   09/2017 (JMK)
                            SECTION III – SPECIAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS




              to fingerprint verification through the Arizona Department of Public Safety as
              mandated by Phoenix City Code.

       25.4. CONTRACTOR CERTIFICATION; CITY APPROVAL OF MAXIMUM RISK
             BACKGROUND SCREENING: By executing this agreement, Contractor
             certifies and warrants that Contractor has read the background screening
             requirements and criteria in this section, understands them and that all
             background screening information furnished to the City is accurate and
             current. Also, by executing this agreement, Contractor further certifies and
             warrants that Contractor has satisfied all such background screening
             requirements for the minimum and standard risk background screening as
             required. In addition, for maximum risk background screening, Contractor
             will furnish to Budget and Research Department for the City’s review and
             approval of such background screenings for any contract worker considered
             for performing services under this agreement where human safety or facility
             security is classified as a maximum risk level. The subject contract worker
             will not apply for the appropriate City of Phoenix identification and access
             badge or keys until Contractor has received the City’s written acceptance of
             the subject contract worker’s maximum risk background screening. The City
             may, in its sole discretion, accept or reject any or all the contract workers
             proposed by Contractor for performing work under this agreement. A
             contract worker rejected for work at a maximum risk level under this
             agreement will not be proposed to perform work under other City contracts
             or engagements without City’s prior written approval.

       25.5. TERMS OF THIS SECTION APPLICABLE TO ALL OF CONTRACTOR’S
             CONTRACTS AND SUBCONTRACTS: Contractor will include the terms of
             this section for contract worker background screening in all contracts and
             subcontracts for services furnished under this agreement including, but not
             limited to, supervision and oversight services.

       25.6. MATERIALITY OF BACKGROUND SCREENING REQUIREMENTS;
             INDEMNITY: The background screening requirements of this section are
             material to City’s entry into this agreement and any breach of this section by
             Contractor will be deemed a material breach of this contract. In addition to
             the indemnity provisions set forth in this agreement, Contractor will defend,
             indemnify and hold harmless the City for any and all claims arising out of this
             background screening section including, but not limited to, the



                                                                                Page 41
Solicitation Number: RFP 18-288 (KFT)                                  Rev 1   09/2017 (JMK)
                            SECTION III – SPECIAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS




              disqualifications of a contract worker by Contractor or the City for failure to
              satisfy this section.

       25.7. CONTINUING DUTY; AUDIT: Contractor’s obligations and requirements
             that contract workers satisfy this background screening section will continue
             throughout the entire term of this agreement. Contractor will notify the City
             immediately of any change to a maximum risk background screening of a
             contract worker previously approved by the City. Contractor will maintain all
             records and documents related to all background screenings and the City
             reserves the right to audit Contractor’s compliance with this section.

       25.8. EMPLOYEE IDENTIFICATION AND ACCESS:Contractor’s employees
             must have badges and be in uniforms that bear an easily visible company
             name or logo on the front and/or back. All employees with the exception of
             owners and management (this does not include supervisors) must be in
             company uniform while on site. The identification badge will contain
             Company’s name, employee’s name, signature and employee’s clearly
             identifiable photograph. Identification badges will be visibly worn at all times
             while on City premises. If an additional City issued badge is applicable this
             must also be worn in a clearly visible location. Uniforms are to be approved
             by the Department and are not to be dirty, stained, or torn. Employees will
             not expose tattoos, wear colors or clothing associated with gangs. Open-
             toed shoes, shorts, skorts, skirts, dresses, and hats are not acceptable. All
             Contractor personnel including owners, management, and supervisors must
             wear company and/or City badges in a clearly visible area while on-site.

              25.8.1. Contractor employees are forbidden access to designated restricted
                      areas. Access to each building will be as directed by the Department
                      Director’s authorized representative. Contractor employees are not
                      authorized access other than during scheduled hours for the
                      Department. Contractor employees may not leave the premises
                      during working hours except in cases of emergency and on approval
                      of the Department Director or his authorized representative.

              25.8.2. Only authorized Contractor employees are allowed on the premises
                      of the City facilities/buildings. Contractor employees are not to be
                      accompanied in the work area by acquaintances, family members,




                                                                                 Page 42
Solicitation Number: RFP 18-288 (KFT)                                   Rev 1   09/2017 (JMK)
                            SECTION III – SPECIAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS




                        assistants or any other person unless said person is an authorized
                        Contractor employee.

       25.9. CONTRACT WORKER ACCESS CONTROLS, BADGE AND KEY
             ACCESS REQUIREMENT: A CONTRACT WORKER WILL NOT BE
             ALLOWED TO BEGIN WORK IN ANY CITY FACILITY WITHOUT: THE
             PRIOR COMPLETION AND CITY’S ACCEPTANCE OF THE REQUIRED
             BACKGROUND SCREENING, AND, WHEN REQUIRED, THE CONTRACT
             WORKER’S RECEIPT OF A CITY ISSUED BADGE. A BADGE WILL BE
             ISSUED TO A CONTRACT WORKER SOLELY FOR ACCESS TO THE
             CITY FACILITY(S) TO WHICH THE CONTRACT WORKER IS ASSIGNED.
             EACH CONTRACT WORKER WHO ENTERS A CITY FACILITY MUST
             USE THE BADGE ISSUED TO THE CONTRACT WORKER.

       25.10. KEY ACCESS PROCEDURES: If the Contractor worker’s services require
              keyed access to enter a City facility(s), a separate key issue/return form must
              be completed and submitted by the Contractor for each key issued. The key
              issue/return form is available and the completed form will be submitted to
              the badging office.

       25.11. STOLEN OR LOST BADGES OR KEYS: Contractor will report lost or stolen
              badges or keys to their local police department and must obtain a police
              department report (PDR) prior to re-issuance of any lost or stolen badge or
              key. A new badge application or key issue form will be completed and
              submitted along with payment of the applicable fee listed below prior to
              issuance of a new badge or key.

       25.12. RETURN OF BADGE OR KEYS: All badges and keys are the property of
              the City and must be returned to the City at the badging office within one
              business day (excluding weekends and City holidays) of when the contract
              worker’s access to a City facility is no longer required to furnish the services
              under this agreement. Contractor will collect a contract worker’s badge and
              key(s) upon the termination of the contract worker’s employment; when the
              Contractor worker’s services are no longer required at a particular City
              facility(s); or upon termination, cancellation or expiration of this agreement.




                                                                                 Page 43
Solicitation Number: RFP 18-288 (KFT)                                   Rev 1   09/2017 (JMK)
                            SECTION III – SPECIAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS




       25.13. CONTRACTOR’S DEFAULT; LIQUIDATED DAMAGES; RESERVATION
              OF REMEDIES FOR MATERIAL BREACH: Contractor’s default under this
              section will include, but is not limited to, the following:
               Contract worker gains access to a City facility(s) without the proper
                 badge or key;
               Contract worker uses a badge or key of another to gain access to a City
                 facility;
               Contract worker commences services under this agreement without the
                 proper badge, key or background screening;
               Contract worker or Contractor submits false information or negligently
                 submits wrong information to the City to obtain a badge, key or applicable
                 background screening; or
               Contractor fails to collect and timely return contract worker’s badge or
                 key upon termination of contract worker’s employment, reassignment of
                 contract worker to another City facility or upon the expiration, cancellation
                 or termination of this agreement.

       25.14. Contractor acknowledges and agrees that the access control, badge and key
              requirements in this section are necessary to preserve and protect the public
              health, safety and welfare. Accordingly, Contractor agrees to properly cure
              any default under this section within three business days (excluding
              weekends and City holidays) from the date notice of default is sent by the
              City. The parties agree that Contractor’s failure to properly cure any default
              under this section will constitute a breach of this section. In addition to any
              other remedy available to the City at law or in equity, the Contractor will be
              liable for and pay to the City the sum of $1,000.00 for each breach by
              Contractor in this section. The parties further agree that the sum fixed above
              is reasonable and approximates the actual or anticipated loss to the City at
              the time and making of this agreement in the event that Contractor breaches
              this section. Further, the parties expressly acknowledge and agree to the
              fixed sum set forth above because of the difficulty of proving the City’s actual
              damages in the event that Contractor breaches this section. The parties
              further agree that three breaches by Contractor in this section arising out of
              any default within a consecutive period of three months or three breaches
              by Contractor in this section arising out of the same default within a period
              of 12 consecutive months will constitute a material breach of this agreement
              by Contractor and the City expressly reserves all of its rights, remedies and




                                                                                 Page 44
Solicitation Number: RFP 18-288 (KFT)                                   Rev 1   09/2017 (JMK)
                            SECTION III – SPECIAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS




              interests under this agreement, at law and in equity including, but not limited
              to, termination of this agreement.

       25.15. BADGE AND KEY FEES: The badge and key fee under this Agreement will
              be $55.00 whether for initial badge/key or replacements. The City reserves
              the right to amend these fees upon a 30-day prior written notice to
              Contractor.

26     SECURITY INQUIRIES: Contractor acknowledges that all of the employees that it
       provides pursuant to this Contract shall, at Contractor’s expense, be subject to
       background and security checks and screening at the request of the City.
       Contractor shall perform all such security inquiries and shall make the results
       available to the City for all employees considered for performing work (including
       supervision and oversight) under this Contract. City may make further security
       inquiries. Whether or not further security inquiries are made by the City, City may,
       at its sole, absolute and unfettered discretion, accept or reject any or all of the
       employees proposed by the Contractor for performing work under this Contract.
       Employees rejected by the City for performing services under this Contract may still
       be engaged by Contractor for other work not involving the City. An employee
       rejected for work under this Contract shall not be proposed to perform work under
       other City contracts or engagements without the City’s prior approval.

       The City, in its sole discretion, reserves the right, but not the obligation to:

           26.1      have an employee/prospective employee of the Contractor be
               required to provide fingerprints and execute such other documentation as
               may be necessary to obtain criminal justice information pursuant to A.R.S.
               41-1750 (G) (4);

           26.2     act on newly acquired information whether or not such information
               should have been previously discovered;

           26.3     unilaterally change its standards and criteria relative to the
               acceptability of Contractor’s employees and/or prospective employees; and

           26.4      object, at any time and for any reason, to an employee of Contractor
               performing work (including supervision and oversight) under this




                                                                                   Page 45
Solicitation Number: RFP 18-288 (KFT)                                     Rev 1   09/2017 (JMK)
                            SECTION III – SPECIAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS




               Agreement. Contractor will bear the costs of any and all inquiries requested
               by the City.

27     LIQUIDATED DAMAGES: If the Contractor fails to deliver the supplies or perform
       the services within the time specified in its contract, or any extension thereof, the
       actual damages to the City for the delay will be difficult or impossible to determine.
       Therefore, in lieu of actual damages, the Contractor shall pay to the City as fixed,
       agreed, and liquidated damages for each calendar day of delay, the amount of
       $1,070 per day. Procurement Division may terminate this contract in whole or in
       part as provided in the "Default" provision. In that event, the Contractor shall be
       liable for such liquidated damages accruing until such time as the City may
       reasonably obtain delivery or performance of similar supplies and services. The
       Contractor shall not be charged with liquidated damages when the delay arises out
       of causes beyond the control and without the fault or negligence. The Deputy
       Finance Director or Department Director will be the sole judge in determining the
       liquidated damages.




                                                                                 Page 46
Solicitation Number: RFP 18-288 (KFT)                                   Rev 1   09/2017 (JMK)
                                                                                    CITY OF PHOENIX
                                                                                   Finance Department
             SECTION IV – INSURANCE AND INDEMNIFICATION                            Procurement Division
                                                                               251 W. Washington St., 8th Flr.
                                                                                    Phoenix, AZ 85003


SECTION IV – INSURANCE AND INDEMNIFICATION

GENERAL INDEMNIFICATION:

1. Contractor must indemnify, defend, save and hold harmless the City of Phoenix and
   its officers, officials, agents, and employees (“Indemnitee”) from and against any and
   all claims, actions, liabilities, damages, losses, or expenses (including court costs,
   attorneys’ fees, and costs of claim processing, investigation and litigation) (“Claims”)
   caused, or alleged to be caused, in whole or in part, by the wrongful, negligent or
   willful acts, or errors or omissions of Contractor or any of its owners, officers, directors,
   agents, employees or subcontractors in connection with this Contract. This indemnity
   includes any Claims arising out of or recovered under the Workers’ Compensation
   Law or arising out of the failure of Contractor to conform to any federal, state or local
   law, statute, ordinance, rule, regulation or court decree. Contractor must indemnify
   Indemnitee from and against any and all Claims, except those arising solely from
   Indemnitee’s own negligent or willful acts or omissions. Contractor will be responsible
   for primary loss investigation, defense and judgment costs where this indemnification
   applies. In consideration of the award of this Contract, Contractor waives all rights of
   subrogation against Indemnitee for losses arising from the work performed by
   Contractor for the City. The obligations of Contractor under this provision survive the
   termination or expiration of this Contract.

2. INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS:

   Contractor and subcontractors must procure insurance against claims that may arise
   from or relate to performance of the work hereunder by Contractor and its agents,
   representatives, employees and subcontractors. Contractor and subcontractors must
   maintain that insurance until all of their obligations have been discharged, including
   any warranty periods under this Contract.

   These insurance requirements are minimum requirements for this Contract and in no
   way limit the indemnity covenants contained in this Contract. The City in no way
   warrants that the minimum limits stated in this section are sufficient to protect the
   Contractor from liabilities that might arise out of the performance of the work under
   this contract by the Contractor, its agents, representatives, employees or
   subcontractors and Contractor is free to purchase additional insurance as may be
   determined necessary.

   2.1. MINIMUM SCOPE AND LIMITS OF INSURANCE: Contractor must provide
        coverage with limits of liability not less than those stated below. An excess liability
        policy or umbrella liability policy may be used to meet the minimum liability
        requirements provided that the coverage is written on a “following form” basis.



                                                                                    Page 47
Solicitation Number: RFP 18-288 (KFT)                                      Rev 1   09/2017 (JMK)
                                                                                 CITY OF PHOENIX
                                                                                Finance Department
             SECTION IV – INSURANCE AND INDEMNIFICATION                         Procurement Division
                                                                            251 W. Washington St., 8th Flr.
                                                                                 Phoenix, AZ 85003




       2.1.1. Commercial General Liability – Occurrence Form

       Policy must include bodily injury, property damage and broad form contractual
       liability coverage.

              General Aggregate                                $2,000,000
              Products – Completed Operations Aggregate        $1,000,000
              Personal and Advertising Injury                  $1,000,000
              Each Occurrence                                  $1,000,000

       The policy must be endorsed to include the following additional insured language:
       “The City of Phoenix is named as an additional insured with respect to liability
       arising out of the activities performed by, or on behalf of the Contractor.”

       2.1.2. Automobile Liability

       Bodily Injury and Property Damage coverage for any owned, hired, and non-owned
       vehicles used in the performance of this Contract.

              Combined Single Limit (CSL)                      $1,000,000

       The policy must be endorsed to include the following additional insured language:
       “The City of Phoenix is named as an additional insured with respect to liability
       arising out of the activities performed by, or on behalf of the Contractor, including
       automobiles owned, leased, hired or borrowed by the Contractor.”

       2.1.3. Worker’s Compensation and Employers’ Liability

              Workers’ Compensation                            Statutory
              Employers’ Liability
                   Each Accident                               $100,000
                   Disease – Each Employee                     $100,000
                   Disease – Policy Limit                      $500,000

          Policy must contain a waiver of subrogation against the City of Phoenix.

          This requirement does not apply when a contractor or subcontractor is exempt
           under A.R.S. §23-902(E), AND when such contractor or subcontractor
           executes the appropriate sole proprietor waiver form.

       2.1.4. Technology Errors and Omissions Liability




                                                                                 Page 48
Solicitation Number: RFP 18-288 (KFT)                                   Rev 1   09/2017 (JMK)
                                                                                    CITY OF PHOENIX
                                                                                   Finance Department
             SECTION IV – INSURANCE AND INDEMNIFICATION                            Procurement Division
                                                                               251 W. Washington St., 8th Flr.
                                                                                    Phoenix, AZ 85003



          The policy must cover errors and omissions or negligent acts in the delivery of
           products, services, and/or licensed programs for those services as defined in
           the Scope of Services of this contract.

              Each Claim                                          $1,000,000
              Annual Aggregate                                    $1,000,000

          In the event that the professional liability insurance required by this Contract is
           written on a claims-made basis, Contractor warrants that any retroactive date
           under the policy must precede the effective date of this Contract; and that either
           continuous coverage will be maintained or an extended discovery period will
           be exercised for a period of two (2) years beginning at the time work under this
           Contract is completed.

       2.1.5. Network Security and Privacy Liability
        The policy must cover but not be limited to (1) coverage for third party claims
          and losses with respect to network risks and invasion of privacy, (2) crisis
          management and third party identity theft response costs, and (3) cyber
          extortion.

              Each Claim                                          $1,000,000
              Annual Aggregate                                    $1,000,000

          In the event that the network security and privacy liability insurance required by
           this Contract is written on a claims-made basis, Contractor warrants that any
           retroactive date under the policy must precede the effective date of this
           Contract; and that either continuous coverage will be maintained or an
           extended discovery period will be exercised for a period of two (2) years
           beginning at the time work under this Contract is completed.

   2.2. ADDITIONAL INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS: The policies must include, or be
        endorsed to include, the following provisions:

          On insurance policies where the City of Phoenix is named as an additional
           insured, the City of Phoenix is an additional insured to the full limits of liability
           purchased by the Contractor even if those limits of liability are in excess of
           those required by this Contract.

          The Contractor’s insurance coverage must be primary insurance and non-
           contributory with respect to all other available sources.




                                                                                    Page 49
Solicitation Number: RFP 18-288 (KFT)                                      Rev 1   09/2017 (JMK)
                                                                                  CITY OF PHOENIX
                                                                                 Finance Department
             SECTION IV – INSURANCE AND INDEMNIFICATION                          Procurement Division
                                                                             251 W. Washington St., 8th Flr.
                                                                                  Phoenix, AZ 85003


   2.3. NOTICE OF CANCELLATION: For each insurance policy required by the
        insurance provisions of this Contract, the Contractor must provide to the City,
        within 2 business days of receipt, a notice if a policy is suspended, voided or
        cancelled for any reason. Such notice must be mailed, emailed, hand delivered or
        sent by facsimile transmission to City of Phoenix Finance Department,
        Procurement Division, 251 W. Washington Street, Phoenix, AZ 85003; emailed
        to: procurement.workflow@phoenix.gov

   2.4. ACCEPTABILITY OF INSURERS: Insurance is to be placed with insurers duly
        licensed or authorized to do business in the state of Arizona and with an “A.M.
        Best” rating of not less than B+ VI. The City in no way warrants that the above-
        required minimum insurer rating is sufficient to protect the Contractor from
        potential insurer insolvency.

   2.5. VERIFICATION OF COVERAGE: Contractor must furnish the City with
        certificates of insurance (ACORD form or equivalent approved by the City) as
        required by this Contract. The certificates for each insurance policy are to be
        signed by a person authorized by that insurer to bind coverage on its behalf.

       All certificates and any required endorsements are to be received and approved
       by the City before work commences. Each insurance policy required by this
       Contract must be in effect at or prior to commencement of work under this Contract
       and remain in effect for the duration of the project. Failure to maintain the insurance
       policies as required by this Contract or to provide evidence of renewal is a material
       breach of contract.

       All certificates required by this Contract must be sent directly to City of Phoenix
       Finance Department, Procurement Division, 251 W. Washington Street, Phoenix,
       AZ       85003; emailed to: procurement.workflow@phoenix.gov. The City
       project/contract number and project description must be noted on the certificate of
       insurance. The City reserves the right to require complete, certified copies of all
       insurance policies required by this Contract at any time. DO NOT SEND
       CERTIFICATES OF INSURANCE TO THE CITY’S RISK MANAGEMENT
       DIVISION.

   2.6. SUBCONTRACTORS: Contractors’ certificate(s) must include all subcontractors
        as additional insureds under its policies or Contractor must furnish to the City
        separate certificates and endorsements for each subcontractor. All coverages for
        subcontractors must be subject to the minimum requirements identified above.




                                                                                  Page 50
Solicitation Number: RFP 18-288 (KFT)                                    Rev 1   09/2017 (JMK)
                                                                                CITY OF PHOENIX
                                                                               Finance Department
             SECTION IV – INSURANCE AND INDEMNIFICATION                        Procurement Division
                                                                           251 W. Washington St., 8th Flr.
                                                                                Phoenix, AZ 85003


   2.7. APPROVAL: Any modification or variation from the insurance requirements in this
        Contract must be made by the Law Department, whose decision is final. Such
        action will not require a formal Contract amendment, but may be made by
        administrative action.

   2.8. LIMITATION OF LIABILITY: The total aggregate liability of either party for all
        Claims arising out of or in connection with this Agreement will not exceed three
        times the aggregate amount payable by the City to the Contractor under this
        Contract. The limitation of liability in this section will apply to any damages,
        however caused, and on any theory of liability, whether for breach of contract, tort
        (including, but not limited to negligence), or otherwise, and regardless of whether
        the limited remedies available to the parties fail of their essential purpose.
        Notwithstanding the foregoing, such limitation of liability shall not be applied or
        enforced in a manner that would conflict with or cause violation of Section 42-18
        of the Phoenix City Code.




                                                                                Page 51
Solicitation Number: RFP 18-288 (KFT)                                  Rev 1   09/2017 (JMK)
                                                                                  CITY OF PHOENIX
                                                                                 Finance Department
                         SECTION V – SCOPE OF WORK                               Procurement Division
                                                                             251 W. Washington St., 8th Flr.
                                                                                  Phoenix, AZ 85003


SECTION V – SCOPE

1. INTRODUCTION
   The City of Phoenix Budget and Research Department currently develops and
   manages its budget using 20+ year old BRASS budgeting software, a variety of
   departmental and centralized Access databases, and extensive use of spreadsheets.
   These systems interface with the City’s SAP ECC financial system and PeopleSoft
   human resources system.
   The City implemented SAP as its financial system in 1998 and is currently using
   version 6.0 (enhancement package 8.0) with over 2,000 users.
   The City is currently using PeopleSoft Human Capital Management (version 9.2) for
   its personnel management system.
   Limitations of BRASS, as it is configured, have led to the prevalence of shadow
   systems, both within the Budget and Research Department and in operational
   departments, and prohibit the automation of key reports and published schedules. For
   example, not all data required to calculate a projected fund balance is currently
   entered in BRASS, and is instead tracked on spreadsheets.

2. PROJECT GOALS FOR BUDGET SYSTEM REPLACEMENT
   The project that is the subject of this Request for Proposals has the following goals
   and objectives:
   a. Replace the City’s BRASS system and other centrally-maintained budget
      databases with a sustainable, browser-based, commercial off-the-shelf cloud-
      hosted system, capable of supporting all of the City’s budgeting requirements, with
      a planned service life of 10 to 20 years.
   b. Significantly improve the efficiency of budget development, management, and
      reporting processes.
   c. Reduce risk of errors through automation.
   d. Implement an easy to use and robust reporting solution.
   e. Produce effective and thorough knowledge transfer materials for system
      maintenance, system administration, and user training.




                                                                                Page 52
Solicitation Number: RFP 18-288 (KFT)                                Rev 1    09/2017 (JMK)
                                                                                    CITY OF PHOENIX
                                                                                   Finance Department
                         SECTION V – SCOPE OF WORK                                 Procurement Division
                                                                               251 W. Washington St., 8th Flr.
                                                                                    Phoenix, AZ 85003


3. CURRENT OPERATING BUDGET PROCESS OVERVIEW
   The City of Phoenix uses a modified zero-based budget process. Each fall,
   departments start from zero and submit an estimate of the costs associated with
   providing their City Council approved levels of service for the remainder of the current
   fiscal year (the “estimate”) and the following fiscal year (the “base budget”). Budget
   and Research staff review these submittals to ensure that only the funding needed to
   continue current approved service levels is included in the department’s estimate and
   base budget, and submittals are adjusted accordingly. Departments also submit their
   estimated fee revenue, which is reviewed by Budget and Research. Revisions to
   department submittals are made as a result of these reviews.
   Budget and Research conducts a central review of certain expenditures such as fuel
   and utilities, and makes citywide adjustments based on that review. City sales tax,
   property tax, and state shared revenue are manually forecast by Budget and
   Research. Projected interfund transfers are manually tracked by Budget and
   Research, based on input from departments.
   After Budget and Research has completed its reviews and adjustments are
   completed, departments typically are asked to identify five to 10 percent of their
   General Fund budget for potential elimination. These proposals are potential
   reductions, which can be effective beginning in the current fiscal year or the base year,
   and are presented in priority order. Departments also are asked to provide any
   requests for new or expanded programs. These are called supplemental budget
   requests. Departments can propose reducing or eliminating an existing program in
   order to fund the expansion of an existing program or adding a new program.
   When base reductions and supplemental requests are proposed, they are ranked
   according to their impact on current service levels. These rankings are used by city
   management to assist in the development of the City Manager’s Trial Budget.
   The Trial Budget is reviewed with the City Council early each spring. The purpose of
   the Trial Budget is to enable the community and the City Council to comment on a
   balanced budget proposal well before the City Manager is required to submit a
   proposed budget in May. Public hearings are conducted throughout the community
   during day and evening hours, at which residents are encouraged to provide their
   feedback.
   The City Manager’s Proposed Budget provided in May reflects changes resulting from
   the input received from the community and City Council. The City Council makes final
   budget decisions after the City Manager’s Budget is reviewed at the end of May, and
   legally adopts the budget in June.




                                                                                  Page 53
Solicitation Number: RFP 18-288 (KFT)                                  Rev 1    09/2017 (JMK)
                                                                                    CITY OF PHOENIX
                                                                                   Finance Department
                         SECTION V – SCOPE OF WORK                                 Procurement Division
                                                                               251 W. Washington St., 8th Flr.
                                                                                    Phoenix, AZ 85003


4. CURRENT CAPITAL               IMPROVEMENT       PROGRAM        BUDGET           PROCESS
   OVERVIEW
   The Capital Improvement Program (CIP) represents the City’s planned expenditures
   for capital projects. The first year of the 5-year CIP is appropriated by City Council;
   remaining years are adopted to reflect intent. CIP funding sources include operating
   funds (such as the General Fund) as well as capital funds (such as bond funds).
   Each year, departments prepare revised estimates of current-year CIP expenditures,
   and at least five years of projected CIP Expenditures. In some cases, this planning is
   accomplished as part of a separate formal process, such as utility rate-setting.
   Departments submit expenditure estimates for the current year and planned 5-year
   program to Budget and Research each December, along with revenue estimates for
   capital funds. Budget and Research staff review the departments’ submittals for
   funding availability, reasonableness, technical accuracy and availability of
   appropriation. Project descriptions and related information are additionally updated,
   including anticipated operating costs associated with any new facilities. The resultant
   Preliminary CIP is presented to the City Council in March.
   In April, departments prepare proposed updates to the Preliminary CIP, primarily
   limited to the current year and upcoming budget year data. Updates generally reflect
   known cost changes, carryover of costs from the current year to the budget year, and
   other adjustments. Project descriptions and related information are again refined. The
   resultant Final CIP is presented to the City Council for approval in June, at which time
   the first year is legally adopted.

5. BUDGET PUBLICATIONS
   a. The City publishes the following budget documents:
         i.    Summary Budget (summarizes operating and CIP budgets)
         ii.   Detail Budget (additional detail on operating and CIP budgets)
        iii.   Capital Improvement Program (project level detail on CIP budget)
        iv.    Inventory of Programs (program level detail on operating budget)
         v.    Budget Adoption Ordinances (adoption of operating and capital expenditure
               appropriations)
        vi.    State Forms A through G (budget presented in the forms prescribed by the
               State of Arizona)
   b. These documents are all available on the City’s website:
         i.    https://www.phoenix.gov/budget/annualbudget


                                                                                  Page 54
Solicitation Number: RFP 18-288 (KFT)                                  Rev 1    09/2017 (JMK)
                                                                                    CITY OF PHOENIX
                                                                                   Finance Department
                         SECTION V – SCOPE OF WORK                                 Procurement Division
                                                                               251 W. Washington St., 8th Flr.
                                                                                    Phoenix, AZ 85003


         ii.   https://www.phoenix.gov/budget/reports/revenue

6. DEFINITIONS
   The following definitions are provided for terms used throughout this document:
   a. Adopted Budget. The Operating and Capital Improvement Program budgets for
      the current year as originally adopted by City Council.
   b. Adopted Capital Improvement Program (CIP). The Adopted Budget for the
      Capital Improvement Program plus four years of planned budgets adopted by City
      Council.
   c. Base. For the Operating budget, a forecast of what departments expect to spend
      in the following fiscal year assuming they will continue to provide the current
      Council adopted level of service.
   d. Commitment Item. Character of expenditures or revenues (e.g., Salaries) which
      are also known as general ledger accounts.
   e. Estimate. An updated forecast of the Operating and Capital Improvement Program
      expenditures and revenue for the current fiscal year that is established by
      departments in conjunction with Budget and Research, maintained in BRASS
      (current budget software), and modified periodically throughout the year. Although
      it is not adopted by City Council, once it is developed, the Estimate serves as a
      budgetary control – departments’ expenditures are required to be less than or
      equal to the Estimate.
   f. FTE. Full-time Equivalent (FTE) is used to express authorized part-time positions.
      One FTE equals 2,080 hours per year. Thus, a part-time position expected to work
      1,040 hours per year is equal to 0.5 FTE. A full-time position is always equal to
      1.0 FTE.
   g. Fund. A grouping of related accounts that is used to maintain control over
      resources that have been segregated for specific activities or objectives.
   h. Fund Center. An organizational unit (e.g., Directors Office).
   i.   Lump Sum Pay. Types of pay that cannot be estimated solely by the existence of
        a position. For example, overtime pay or sick leave payout upon retirement.
   j.   Program. A program is any distinct function (a service or set of services) directed
        towards achieving a departmental objective (or closely related set of objectives)
        for internal and/or external customers.
   k. Proposed Budget. The Proposed Operating Budget and the first year of the
      Proposed Capital Improvement Program.


                                                                                  Page 55
Solicitation Number: RFP 18-288 (KFT)                                  Rev 1    09/2017 (JMK)
                                                                                    CITY OF PHOENIX
                                                                                   Finance Department
                         SECTION V – SCOPE OF WORK                                 Procurement Division
                                                                               251 W. Washington St., 8th Flr.
                                                                                    Phoenix, AZ 85003


   l.   Proposed Capital Improvement Program (CIP). A forecast of CIP expenditures
        over the upcoming five-year period; the first year of the final version becomes the
        Adopted Budget for the new year. Although not tracked in the central budget
        system, some departments maintain 10-year CIP forecasts.
   m. Proposed Operating Budget. The Base as modified for any additions or
      reductions to current service levels; the final version becomes the Adopted Budget
      for the new year.
   n. Revised Budget. The Operating and Capital Improvement Program Adopted
      Budget for the current year as revised through net-zero adjustments entered in the
      SAP financial system.
   o. SAP (ECC). The City’s ERP financial system. It is the current version of SAP (6.0
      Enhancement package 5.0). Occasionally called out as ECC (Enterprise Central
      Core), because the city uses 7 different SAP components, and ECC is
      differentiator with those other systems, like SRM (Supplier relationship
      Management). ECC has several modules, including Funds Management (FM),
      Financial Accounting (FI), and Controlling (CO). References to SAP and ECC
      generally refer to the FM module except where otherwise indicated.
   p. Service Level Measure. A metric that quantifies a program’s level of service and
      helps determine the extent to which a program is achieving its goals. These can
      also be referred to as performance measures or key performance indicators.




                                                                                  Page 56
Solicitation Number: RFP 18-288 (KFT)                                  Rev 1    09/2017 (JMK)
                                                                                   CITY OF PHOENIX
                                                                                  Finance Department
                         SECTION V – SCOPE OF WORK                                Procurement Division
                                                                              251 W. Washington St., 8th Flr.
                                                                                   Phoenix, AZ 85003


7. OBJECTIVE
   The City requests proposals for a cloud-hosted, commercial-off-the-shelf budget
   system to replace the City’s BRASS system as well as budget functions accomplished
   outside of the BRASS system, and associated implementation, hosting and
   maintenance services, consistent with the requirements contained in this document,
   and to be accomplished as generally outlined in the Draft Scope of Work. The City
   currently owns SAP Business Warehouse/Business Intelligence (version 7.5) with the
   Business Objects Suite (version 4.2; enhancement package 5.0), which may be
   utilized for the project without need for additional Business Objects licenses, as well
   as licenses for Oracle Business Intelligence if Oracle Business Intelligence is
   proposed as the reporting tool; alternately, respondents may propose the use of
   embedded reporting tools or other third-party reporting tools (the costs of which must
   be included in the bid). Respondents must be the proprietors of the proposed budget
   system; however, third-party hosting solutions may be proposed, and implementation
   services may be subcontracted. Only one proposal may be submitted by each
   respondent.
   In addition to written responses to this RFP, respondents may optionally provide
   product brochures or marketing materials, technical manuals or diagrams,
   demonstration videos illustrating desired functionality as described in the RFP,
   screenshots, or sample reports, which the City may review as needed.
   Offerors must respond to the following requirements. The City will develop a short list
   of the most qualified respondents based on the following requirements. Final
   evaluations of short-listed responses will be conducted based on responses to these
   requirements, product demonstrations and interviews, and price proposals.
   The word “form” is used throughout this section and refers to a data entry form
   instance. All data entry forms are in effect requests to change existing data, even if
   the existing data is zero/non-existent. Each data entry form instance is typically a
   package of multiple changes (i.e. changing the values for multiple fund center-fund-
   commitment item combinations), and each package of changes has its own workflow
   and audit trail. Responses related to systems that are not form based, i.e. do not use
   discrete form instances, should identify how the stated requirement is addressed
   within the context of the proposed system.

8. PROJECT TEAMS
   Except as otherwise agreed to by the City and the Contractor in writing:

   a. The Project Executive Team consists of the Budget & Research Department
      Director and the Contractor’s Principal.




                                                                                 Page 57
Solicitation Number: RFP 18-288 (KFT)                                 Rev 1    09/2017 (JMK)
                                                                                    CITY OF PHOENIX
                                                                                   Finance Department
                         SECTION V – SCOPE OF WORK                                 Procurement Division
                                                                               251 W. Washington St., 8th Flr.
                                                                                    Phoenix, AZ 85003


   b. The Project Management Team consists of the project managers for the
      Contractor and the City, the City’s functional and technical leads, and the
      Contractor’s key personnel.

   c. The Project Steering Committee consists of the Project Executive Team, the
      Project Management Team, the City’s Chief Financial Officer and Chief Information
      Officer, and other managers within the City designated by the Director.

   d. The Project Functional Team and Project Technical Team consist of the Project
      Management Team, the Contractor’s reporting lead, and staff within the City
      designated by the Budget & Research Department Director.

   e. The Project Team consists of all aforementioned teams.


9. CHANGES TO KEY PERSONNEL
   The Contractor’s Project Manager, Functional Lead, Technical Lead, Reporting Lead
   and Solution Architect are key personnel. Contractor warrants that key personnel
   proposed by the Contractor are anticipated to be assigned to the Project from the
   start of work through go-live, and available to the Project for a minimum of 12
   months following go-live. In the event that a change to key personnel is required, the
   Contractor will provide a substitute of equal or higher qualifications and experience,
   which will be subject to the City’s approval, which the City shall not unreasonably
   withhold. As changes to key personnel may result in delays, rework and other costs
   to the City, the Contractor will make all reasonable efforts to avoid these changes,
   except as requested by the City.


10. CITY STAFFING AND RESOURCES
   a. The City will assign an IT Project Manager (1/2 time), and one or more Business
      Analysts (equivalent of one full-time) to the project. Two Deputy Budget and
      Research Directors will act as the City’s functional leads, serve as the primary
      business process contacts, provide day-to-day guidance, and one or both will
      generally attend all project meetings. Additional City subject matter experts will be
      involved in the project as needed, and a broad range of end users will be involved
      in solution design input and testing.
       This staffing model is intended to incorporate redundancy and continuity in the
       event of staff turnover.




                                                                                  Page 58
Solicitation Number: RFP 18-288 (KFT)                                  Rev 1    09/2017 (JMK)
                                                                                      CITY OF PHOENIX
                                                                                     Finance Department
                         SECTION V – SCOPE OF WORK                                   Procurement Division
                                                                                 251 W. Washington St., 8th Flr.
                                                                                      Phoenix, AZ 85003


   b. Except for the project manager position, the City has not supplemented staffing for
      the project, and some degree of flexibility will be required to ensure routine work
      can continue during project implementation.
   c. The City has budgeted $2,000,000 for one-time project costs, including
      implementation and licensing. Maintenance costs for the City’s current budget
      system are $109,000 for the period from July 1, 2018 through June 30, 2019, and
      increase by 5% annually. The City anticipates that proposals will be approximately
      at or below these figures, plus hosting fees.
   d. Assigned City staff will support the Project as a collateral assignment. City staff
      availability is typically between the hours of 8:00 AM and 5:00 PM, Arizona Time,
      Monday through Friday, excluding City holidays. The Contractor should anticipate
      non-availability or reduced availability of City staff during certain times of the year,
      as generally represented by the availability percentages below. Additionally, City
      staff supporting the Personal Services Forecasting functionality will have erratic
      required labor costing assignments during the months of January 2019 through
      April 2019, making availability of those staff unpredictable during those months.
                                          Revenues, Other
                      Operating                                     Personal Services
                                         Sources & Uses, and
                  Expenditure Budget                                   Forecasting
                                                 CIP
    July                   70%                  40%                        30%
    August                 60%                  60%                        30%
    September              60%                  60%                        10%
    October                50%                  50%                        10%
    November               20%                  30%                        10%
    December               20%                  20%                        20%
    January                40%                  20%                        50%
    February               30%                  10%                        60%
    March                  50%                  30%                        50%
    April                  50%                  10%                        20%
    May                    50%                  10%                        10%
    June                   70%                  30%                        20%

11. REPORTING AND COMMUNICATIONS
    a. Project Administrative Meetings
       The Project Management Team will convene weekly to identify items completed
       during the previous week, items planned for the current week, time or deliverables
       needed from City staff during the coming 30 days, overdue tasks, outstanding
       action items, risks, decisions, and a high-level schedule update.



                                                                                    Page 59
Solicitation Number: RFP 18-288 (KFT)                                    Rev 1    09/2017 (JMK)
                                                                                   CITY OF PHOENIX
                                                                                  Finance Department
                         SECTION V – SCOPE OF WORK                                Procurement Division
                                                                              251 W. Washington St., 8th Flr.
                                                                                   Phoenix, AZ 85003




       If determined to be necessary by the City or the Contractor, the Project
       Management Team will hold 15-minute standup meetings, no more frequently than
       daily unless otherwise mutually agreed upon. The purpose of these meetings will
       be to identify any immediate barriers to progress and actions that need to be taken
       to address identified issues.

   b. Project Schedule Management
      The project managers for the City and the Contractor will meet in advance of the
      weekly Project Management Team meeting to update the Project schedule and
      identify any overdue tasks. The Project Schedule will be maintained in Microsoft
      Project unless otherwise agreed to by the City and the Contractor.

   c. Project Status Update Report
      The Contractor’s Project Manager shall submit a weekly Project Status Update
      Report to the Project Management Team each week by a deadline established by
      the City. The report will include tasks/milestones achieved during the past week,
      planned tasks for the coming week, and issues or risks that the City’s Project
      Management Team need to be aware of.

12. PROJECT DOCUMENTATION

   Although the following documents are identified for development in individual Work
   Assignments, the Contractor is required to maintain the documents throughout the
   Project:

       1. Project Management Plan (PMP) – A plan that shows how this project is
          executed, monitored and controlled from initiation phase to post-go-live system
          support phase. The PMP includes what Project Management Methodology is
          used, Project Scope, Communication Management Plan, Project Schedule and
          Milestones, Risk, Issues, Constraints, and Change Management.
       2. Detailed Scope of Work for each Work Assignment subsequent to Assignment
          1.
       3. Project Schedule in MS Project for each Work Assignment and the overall
          Project.
       4. Quality Plan and Test Plan.
       5. Project Risks and Mitigation Plan.
       6. Functional Specification for development work.
       7. Technical Specification for development work.




                                                                                 Page 60
Solicitation Number: RFP 18-288 (KFT)                                 Rev 1    09/2017 (JMK)
                                                                                     CITY OF PHOENIX
                                                                                    Finance Department
                         SECTION V – SCOPE OF WORK                                  Procurement Division
                                                                                251 W. Washington St., 8th Flr.
                                                                                     Phoenix, AZ 85003


       8. Test Scripts or Test Scenarios for reporting testing, graphical user interface
           (GUI) testing (if applicable), functional testing, interface testing, integration
           testing (end-to-end testing), performance/volume testing per City’s
           requirements, security testing, exception handling/error testing and testing of
           automated functionality (where applicable).
       9. System Training Plan for City’s trainers and system administrators.
       10. Cutover/Go-Live Plan.
       11. System User Guide Manual.
       12. System Administration Manual including backup procedures and disaster
           recovery.
       13. System Operations and Maintenance Manual.

14. PRODUCT LICENSES, MAINTENANCE, AND HOSTING

   The Contractor shall provide all applicable product licenses, maintenance and hosting
   services required for Project implementation and 10 years of post-go live support.

15. PLANNED PROJECT STRUCTURE
   The planned project structure under this Contract is generally outlined below.
   However, if mutually agreed upon by the City and the Contractor in writing by an
   amendment to the contract, the structure below may be modified. Performance of
   each Work Assignment is to commence only upon receipt of a written Notice to
   Proceed issued by the Director.

   Work Assignment 1 – Solution Design
   Duration – [X days]
   Price – [$X]

       1. Complete onboarding, planning (including preparing the initial draft PMP,
          Project Schedule, Quality and Test Plan, Risk and Mitigation Plan, and System
          Training Plan), hold a Project kickoff meeting, and install any required
          applications.
       2. Gather current state information: review existing City budgeting processes,
          interfaces, data and reports.
       3. Develop recommended list of pre-go live reports for development by the
          Contractor.
       4. Provide training to City staff on Product features, functionality and technical
          requirements applicable to the City’s budgeting process. This includes a live
          demo of the Product.



                                                                                   Page 61
Solicitation Number: RFP 18-288 (KFT)                                   Rev 1    09/2017 (JMK)
                                                                                   CITY OF PHOENIX
                                                                                  Finance Department
                         SECTION V – SCOPE OF WORK                                Procurement Division
                                                                              251 W. Washington St., 8th Flr.
                                                                                   Phoenix, AZ 85003


       5. Validate Project feasibility and prepare a high-level summary of the proposed
          solution.
       6. Document the solution design of the Project and develop interfaces from
          external systems.
       7. Complete a detailed scope of work for Work Assignments 2 through 5 that
          includes due dates and responsible parties. Detailed scope of work will need
          to be approved by the Project Executive Team.
       8. Prepare the final PMP, Project Schedule, Quality and Test Plan, Risk and
          Mitigation Plan, and System Training Plan for City review and approval.

   Work Assignment 2 – Data Conversion and Initial Build
   Duration – [X days]
   Price – [$X] (Excluding Optional Tasks)
   Price for Optional Task SAP Master Data Interface – [$X]
   Price for Optional Task BRASS Data Conversion – [$X]

       1. Develop tool to upload master data attributes to the System from an Excel flat
          file. Upload and validate data.
       2. Develop tool to automatically extract SAP FM actuals that includes current and
          historical fiscal years, budget, estimate, and year-end actuals. Upload and
          validate data.
       3. Develop tool to upload a master data hierarchy to the System from a series of
          Excel flat files containing each node ID, node name and parent node ID. Upload
          and validate data.
       4. OPTIONAL TASK. Develop tool to automatically extract SAP master data and
          master data hierarchies, and to load these into the budget system. Upload and
          validate data.
       5. Develop tool for CIP FM actuals to crosswalk data from the FM commitment
          item to an equivalent budgetary commitment item. Upload and validate data.
       6. Develop PeopleSoft interface. This may involve working with current City
          contractor to develop new PeopleSoft interface file. Upload and validate data.
          Build and test reports used for data validation which can also be used post go-
          live.
       7. Develop a report equivalent to the SAP ZBFI (Budgetary Financial Statement)
          report using the uploaded SAP FM master data, SAP FM actuals, and the
          uploaded master data hierarchy and attributes, and reconcile the developed
          report to the SAP ZBFI report (example attached as sample report).
       8. Conduct a trial salary and benefit forecast calculation for a single department,
          and reconcile the calculation to the pay and benefits data and an equivalent


                                                                                 Page 62
Solicitation Number: RFP 18-288 (KFT)                                 Rev 1    09/2017 (JMK)
                                                                                     CITY OF PHOENIX
                                                                                    Finance Department
                         SECTION V – SCOPE OF WORK                                  Procurement Division
                                                                                251 W. Washington St., 8th Flr.
                                                                                     Phoenix, AZ 85003


           BRASS calculation. Reconcile system reported authorized count with Budget
           and Research authorized count.
       9. Complete development and testing of a single data entry form (form to be
           determined by the City, with the Contractor’s input). Build a rudimentary report
           to validate functionality of form.
       10. OPTIONAL TASK. Extract the most current 10 years of BRASS SS_DATA
           table data, for both the Operating and CIP BRASS production databases, as
           well as column definitions, for integrated reporting.

   Work Assignment 3 – Configuration and Testing
   Duration – [X days]
   Price – [$X]

       1. Develop and test remainder of forms. The Contractor will independently
          develop, execute and document unit and integration test scripts, including all
          end-to-end budget processes, performance/volume testing per City’s
          requirements, security testing, exception handling/error testing and testing of
          automated functionality (where applicable). Defects will be resolved prior to
          handover of forms to the City for user acceptance testing. Build rudimentary
          reports to validate functionality of forms.
       2. Complete ad-hoc query/report development and testing.
       3. Configure workflow notifications, worklists and dashboards.
       4. Configure security and single-sign-on functionality.
       5. Conduct a city-wide salary and benefit forecast calculation, and reconcile the
          calculation to the pay and benefits data and an equivalent BRASS calculation.
          Reconcile system reported authorized count with Budget and Research
          authorized count.
       6. Support user acceptance testing and correct defects. The Contractor will
          correct all functional defects. The Contractor will additionally support a
          minimum of 40 hours of cosmetic defect resolution.
       7. Prepare technical specifications.
       8. Prepare User Guide Manual, System Administration Manual including backup
          procedures and disaster recovery, and System Operations and Maintenance
          Manual, specific to this implementation.
       9. Conduct training on use and maintenance of personal services forecasting
          functionality. This includes having staff conduct at least one forecast going from
          beginning of process to validation of forecast.

   Work Assignment 4 – Reporting and Go-Live
   Duration – [X days]


                                                                                   Page 63
Solicitation Number: RFP 18-288 (KFT)                                   Rev 1    09/2017 (JMK)
                                                                                  CITY OF PHOENIX
                                                                                 Finance Department
                         SECTION V – SCOPE OF WORK                               Procurement Division
                                                                             251 W. Washington St., 8th Flr.
                                                                                  Phoenix, AZ 85003


   Price – [$X]

       1. Conduct training on use of reporting tools and report development.
       2. Conduct system operation and maintenance training.
       3. Develop, test, and validate comprehensive queries/universes to be used in
          reporting of budget system financial data, form metadata, audit trail data,
          financial data from the SAP interface, personal services forecasting data,
          related master data attributes, and aggradations, versions and intersections of
          this data, and that incorporate hierarchical structure.
       4. Develop, test, and validate a minimum of 50 pre-go-live reports: 5 highly
          complex reports per requirement ID RPT.LEVEL_OF_EFFORT.04, 30
          moderately         complex        reports        per     requirement       IDs
          RPT.LEVEL_OF_EFFORT.02 and .03, and 15 simple reports per requirement
          ID RPT.LEVEL_OF_EFFORT.01.
       5. Refresh master data, hierarchies, attributes, and historical BRASS and SAP
          data.
       6. Conduct cutover to production.

   Work Assignment 5 – Post-Production Optional Task Development
   Duration – [X days]
   Price – [$X]

       1. Review the following existing City processes, identify whether efficiencies may
          be created by incorporating any or all of the processes within the Project, and
          if applicable, develop a detailed Scope of Work and itemized price proposal for
          Assignment 6: (a) Inventory of Programs, (b) extraction and transformation of
          sales tax actuals from Oracle BI, (c) sales tax forecasting and associated
          reporting, (d) extraction and transformation of annual debt service estimates
          from the Bonded Debt Forecast System, (e) functionality associated with the
          “Water Database” budget shadow system, (f) five-year forecast, (g)
          performance measures, (h) transaction-level SAP FM data reporting. If
          selected, any optional tasks would come from owner’s contingency if available.

   Work Assignment 6 – Post-Production Optional Tasks / Owner’s Contingency
   Duration – [X days]
   Price – [Amount to be determined by City]
   Hourly Rate for Reporting Lead – [$X]
   Hourly Rate for Reporting Specialist – [$X]




                                                                                Page 64
Solicitation Number: RFP 18-288 (KFT)                                Rev 1    09/2017 (JMK)
                                                                                      CITY OF PHOENIX
                                                                                     Finance Department
                         SECTION V – SCOPE OF WORK                                   Procurement Division
                                                                                 251 W. Washington St., 8th Flr.
                                                                                      Phoenix, AZ 85003


       Use of this funding is only authorized by explicit written approval of the Director.

       1. Implement scope of work developed under Assignment 6 at City’s discretion, if
          applicable.
       2. Provide on-call report development assistance for the City by the Project
          reporting lead (or by a reporting specialist, at the City’s discretion) to be billed
          quarterly on the basis of actual hours worked.

16. PROJECT TASKS AND DELIVERABLES

   Detailed tasks and deliverables will be established for each Work Assignment and
   approved by the City prior to the City issuing a notice to proceed for the Work
   Assignment. The detailed tasks and deliverables for Work Assignment 1 are provided
   below.

   WORK ASSIGNMENT 1 – SOLUTION DESIGN
   Under this Assignment, the Contractor, in collaboration with the City, will prepare a
   solution design for the Project and finalize the scope of work and schedule for
   subsequent work assignments. The Contractor will conduct and document a detailed
   review of current City budgeting processes, systems, data and interfaces; provide
   training to City staff on Application features, functionality and technical requirements
   applicable to the City’s budgeting process so that City staff can meaningfully
   participate in solution design; validate that the City’s processes will be supported by
   the Application, document the solution design of the Project; and identify reports to be
   developed prior to go-live. Prior to initiating solution design, the Contractor and City
   will re-validate the feasibility of the Project.

       Task 1 – Onboarding, Planning and Project Kickoff
       1.1. The Contractor will obtain badge, network, VPN, BRASS, PeopleSoft, and
       SAP access necessary for the Project.

       1.2. The City will provide the Contractor with copies of City budget books, key
       manually-produced reports not included in the City budget books, budget
       instructions, BRASS training materials, and staff contact information.

       1.3. The Contractor will work with the City to schedule Contractor and City staff
       time for the Project kickoff meeting and for information gathering sessions.

       1.4. The Contractor will prepare a kickoff meeting presentation and provide content
       of the presentation to the Project Management Team a minimum of one week prior
       to the scheduled meeting date. Contractor will incorporate any comments provided



                                                                                    Page 65
Solicitation Number: RFP 18-288 (KFT)                                    Rev 1    09/2017 (JMK)
                                                                                     CITY OF PHOENIX
                                                                                    Finance Department
                         SECTION V – SCOPE OF WORK                                  Procurement Division
                                                                                251 W. Washington St., 8th Flr.
                                                                                     Phoenix, AZ 85003


       by the Project Management Team. The purpose of the kickoff meeting is to
       introduce contractor staff, review project process outline, and review key product
       features.

       1.5. The Contractor will conduct a kickoff meeting for the Project Team.

       1.6. The Contractor will install any required applications.

       1.7. The Contractor will prepare the draft Project Management Plan (PMP) – A
       plan that shows how this project is executed, monitored and controlled from
       initiation phase to post-go-live system support phase. The PMP includes what
       Project Management Methodology is used, Project Scope, Communication
       Management Plan, Project Schedule and Milestones, Risk, Issues, Constraints,
       and Change Management.

       1.8. The Contractor will prepare the initial Project Schedule in MS Project for each
       Work Assignment and the overall Project.

       1.9. The Contractor will prepare the initial Quality Plan and Test Plan for the
       Project.

       1.10. The Contractor will prepare the initial Project Risks and Mitigation plan.

       1.11. The Contractor will prepare the initial System Training Plan for City’s trainers
       and system administrators.

              Deliverable 1.1. – Badge/IT Access
              Deliverable 1.2. – Kickoff Meeting
              Deliverable 1.3. – Application Installation (if applicable)
              Deliverable 1.4. – Initial PMP
              Deliverable 1.5. – Initial Project Schedule
              Deliverable 1.6. – Initial Quality Plan and Test Plan
              Deliverable 1.7. – Initial Project Risks and Mitigation Plan
              Deliverable 1.8. – Initial System Training Plan

       Task 2 – Current State Information Gathering
       2.1. The Contractor will hold small group sessions with Budget & Research staff
       and review the following processes; the Contractor will then present an overview
       of the current processes to the full Project team to validate understanding.

           1. Master Data Maintenance
           2. Hierarchical Data Structures



                                                                                   Page 66
Solicitation Number: RFP 18-288 (KFT)                                   Rev 1    09/2017 (JMK)
                                                                                   CITY OF PHOENIX
                                                                                  Finance Department
                         SECTION V – SCOPE OF WORK                                Procurement Division
                                                                              251 W. Washington St., 8th Flr.
                                                                                   Phoenix, AZ 85003


           3. Personal Services Forecasting
           4. Authorized Count Maintenance
           5. Operating Estimate and Base Budget Development
           6. Operating Budget Decision Packages
           7. Capital Improvement Program Development
           8. Capital Project Information
           9. Unbudgeted Fund Balance Elements and Fund Balance Projections
           10. Inventory of Programs (Limited Review)
           11. Sales Tax Forecasting and Reporting (Limited Review)
           12. Bonded Debt Forecast System (Limited Review)
           13. Department Shadow Systems (Limited Review)
           14. Five-Year Forecast (Limited Review)
           15. Performance Measures (Limited Review)
           16. Transaction-level SAP FM data reporting (Limited Review)

       2.2. The Contractor will review existing BRASS configuration, BRASS SBFS
       configuration, BRASS reports, the BRASS Automated Spreadsheet View tool, all
       schedules in the City’s budget books, and management reports provided by City
       staff. The Contractor will document data entry and data versions required to
       prepare these reports.

       2.3. The Contractor will review existing roles in BRASS and roles implied by the
       current state process and identify an inventory of user roles for the Application.

       2.4. The Contractor will review the existing BRASS-to-SAP interface, SAP-to-
       BRASS interface, and PeopleSoft-to-SBFS interface. Contractor will document
       any modifications to BRASS-to-SAP and SAP-to-BRASS interfaces needed for
       system compatibility or to support future state needs identified by the City
       Contractor will create PeopleSoft-to-Budget interface file specifications such that
       only the needed data is included in the interface.

       2.5. The Contractor will review existing master data and hierarchies in BRASS,
       SAP and PeopleSoft, document gaps, and identify a conceptual approach to filling
       these gaps either through maintenance of additional master data/hierarchies in the
       budgeting system or in the financial system.

              Deliverable 2.1 – Current State Process Synopsis Presentation
              Deliverable 2.2.1 – Inventory of Data Capture Needs
              Deliverable 2.2.2 – Inventory of Data Versions
              Deliverable 2.3 – Inventory of Roles



                                                                                 Page 67
Solicitation Number: RFP 18-288 (KFT)                                 Rev 1    09/2017 (JMK)
                                                                                     CITY OF PHOENIX
                                                                                    Finance Department
                         SECTION V – SCOPE OF WORK                                  Procurement Division
                                                                                251 W. Washington St., 8th Flr.
                                                                                     Phoenix, AZ 85003


              Deliverable 2.4 – Summary of Interface Needs
              Deliverable 2.5 – Summary of Master Data/Hierarchy Needs

       Task 3 – Report Evaluation
       The City currently produces hundreds of reports related to the budget process.
       Reports produced directly from BRASS, SAP and Access databases follow a
       programming logic. However, many City reports are produced manually in Excel
       using a variety of cross-reference tables that are not standardized. The City
       anticipates that nearly all existing reports will ultimately be standardized and
       produced from the Application, but that only essential reports will be developed
       and tested prior to go-live.

       The Contractor will review existing City reports to the extent needed to ensure that
       the Project will support input of all relevant data and maintenance of necessary
       master data and hierarchical structures. Based on experience, the Contractor will
       develop a recommended list of pre-go-live essential reports that will allow
       departments and Budget & Research to view all aggregated form-submitted data,
       compare data between stages, meet all immediate post go-live business process
       needs, ensure efficient report development post go-live by building a
       representational set of reports pre go-live, and ensure the City’s interim manual
       production of remaining reports is at least as efficient as its existing process. The
       Contractor will additionally identify the most complex post-go-live reports
       anticipated to require development or support from the Contractor. Contractor-
       developed reports will serve as templates and starting points for reports developed
       by City staff; in formulating the recommended list, the Contractor will consider the
       City’s need for a breadth of templates that involves the full range of system data
       and a variety of formats. The Contractor will incorporate City edits to the proposed
       report lists.

              Deliverable 3.1 – Pre-Go-Live Report List
              Deliverable 3.2 – Post-Go-Live Reports List for Support

       Task 4 – Product Orientation
       The Contractor will prepare and provide two separate Product overview sessions
       for City staff: one for functional users on the Project team, and the second for
       technical staff assigned to the Project. Both sessions will be oriented to the
       functional and technical configuration of the Product anticipated based on the
       information gathering sessions. Both sessions will be conducted utilizing live
       systems for demonstration purposes.



                                                                                   Page 68
Solicitation Number: RFP 18-288 (KFT)                                   Rev 1    09/2017 (JMK)
                                                                                    CITY OF PHOENIX
                                                                                   Finance Department
                         SECTION V – SCOPE OF WORK                                 Procurement Division
                                                                               251 W. Washington St., 8th Flr.
                                                                                    Phoenix, AZ 85003




       The Product Functionality Orientation will cover the following topics at a minimum:
          1. General navigation
          2. Creation of a new form instance
          3. Opening of an existing form instance
          4. Form navigation
          5. Data entry
          6. Export/import
          7. Form types
          8. Workflow
          9. Personal services forecasting functionality
          10. Reporting tools

       The Product Technical Orientation will cover the following topics at a minimum:
          1. System architecture
          2. Master data maintenance
          3. Interface tools
          4. Form design tools
          5. User profiles
          6. Security
          7. Reporting tools

              Deliverable 4.1 – Product Functionality Orientation
              Deliverable 4.2 – Product Technical Orientation

       Task 5 – Feasibility Checkpoint
       Evaluating the results of the preceding tasks in this work assignment, the
       Contractor will conduct a presentation for the Project Steering Committee
       identifying any perceived critical risks to Project on-time completion and a
       mitigation plan for those risks, validating that the City’s stated requirements are
       materially accurate or identifying any perceived material omissions, identifying any
       gaps in product functionality, and conveying a high-level overview of the proposed
       solution (i.e., inventory of data entry forms to be utilized) and Project schedule.

              Deliverable 5.1 – Project Steering Committee Presentation

       Task 6 – Solution Design and Interfaces
       The Contractor’s Functional Lead, Technical Lead and Reporting Lead will prepare
       a solution design for the Project in collaboration with the City.



                                                                                  Page 69
Solicitation Number: RFP 18-288 (KFT)                                  Rev 1    09/2017 (JMK)
                                                                                     CITY OF PHOENIX
                                                                                    Finance Department
                         SECTION V – SCOPE OF WORK                                  Procurement Division
                                                                                251 W. Washington St., 8th Flr.
                                                                                     Phoenix, AZ 85003




       6.1. Master Data. The Contractor and City will identify master data and associated
       hierarchies, hierarchical nodes, and attributes to be directly maintained in the
       System, and master data and associated hierarchies, hierarchical nodes, and
       attributes that will be imported from other City systems. The Contractor will identify
       length and related limitations. Master data design should minimize redundant data
       entry and ensure all reports identified by the City can be produced directly from the
       System.

       6.2. Interfaces. The Contractor will design the following interfaces to be
       implemented and tested in Work Assignment 2:

              6.2.1. SAP-to-System. Fund, Fund Center and Commitment Item key
              figures, short and medium text fields, and other attribute fields identified by
              the City (at least daily) (City will evaluate whether anautomated interface is
              required, or whether master data will be maintained manually following
              initial entry). Fund, Fund Center and Commitment Item master data
              hierarchies (at least daily) (City will evaluate whether anautomated interface
              is required, or whether master data will be maintained manually following
              initial entry). Actuals and commitments (at least daily), and month-end
              actuals and commitments (monthly). For reporting purposes, interface must
              support the ability to separately report actuals and commitments at the
              component level (e.g., expenditures broken out separately from
              encumbrances). Beginning fund balance (monthly). Revised Budget (at
              least daily). Include load of all SAP historical year-end actuals, revised
              budget and final estimate data. The SAP-to-System actuals interface will
              require the Contractor to develop at least two data transformations unique
              to the City. Recoveries of prior-year budgetary expenditures (i.e.,
              liquidations of prior-year encumbrances) must be calculated/derived based
              on the commitment item, carryforward level, and value type; these
              calculated recoveries must be mapped to a unique commitment item as part
              of the SAP-to-System interface so that they can be reported in the System
              as resources. Additionally, for CIP forms and reports, budgetary actuals
              must be cross-walked from their native commitment item to an associated
              CIP budgetary commitment item (the City will provide the one-to-many
              crosswalk identifying the CIP budgetary commitment item for each native
              commitment item).




                                                                                   Page 70
Solicitation Number: RFP 18-288 (KFT)                                   Rev 1    09/2017 (JMK)
                                                                                     CITY OF PHOENIX
                                                                                    Finance Department
                         SECTION V – SCOPE OF WORK                                  Procurement Division
                                                                                251 W. Washington St., 8th Flr.
                                                                                     Phoenix, AZ 85003


              6.2.2. System-to-SAP. Planning data (as determined by the City, this will be
              either an ad hoc push by System administrator for manual upload to SAP,
              or a daily automated interface). The System-to-SAP data file is currently a
              text file with each line required to be in the following format: [fiscal
              year][tab][version      number][tab][fund       number][tab][fund       center
              number][tab][commitment item number][tab][commitment item type (“e” or
              “r”)][tab][amount]. The City will provide a sample upload file. Contractor will
              work with City staff to identify any modifications needed to the upload file
              but should generally anticipate a requirement of matching the existing
              interface file format. As a change in current business processes, data
              associated with certain funds center nodes will be required to write to unique
              data versions in SAP that have limited access.

              6.2.3. PeopleSoft-to-System.       As more fully described in the position
              business requirements section of the Contract, assist City staff to redesign
              existing human resource system (PeopleSoft Human Capital Management
              9.2) interface file for exporting data from PeopleSoft to be imported into
              budget management solution.

              6.2.4. Manual Data Interface. The Contractor will identify an Excel file format
              for conducting the initial load of any master data and associated hierarchies,
              hierarchical nodes, and attributes that are to be maintained directly in the
              System (the initial data will not be populated by the City manually in the
              System). The master data load file will generally be in the form of [COL 1]
              Key Figure, [COL 2] Attribute 1, [COL 3] Attribute 2, etc. The hierarchy load
              file will generally be in the format of [COL 1] Node ID, [COL 2] Node Name,
              [COL 3] Parent Node ID. The Contractor will design an interface to populate
              the System using Excel files in the specified format. Following the initial
              load, the interface will support mass uploads by the City’s System
              administrator to replace system data.

       6.3. Form Functional Specifications and Mockups. The Contractor will identify the
       forms necessary to meet the City’s business requirements, provide a visual
       mockup of each form, and provide a specification for each form identifying the
       following (at a minimum):

              6.3.1. Processes Supported by Form.
              6.3.2. Header Parameters/Selections.
              6.3.3. Data Loads.



                                                                                   Page 71
Solicitation Number: RFP 18-288 (KFT)                                   Rev 1    09/2017 (JMK)
                                                                                     CITY OF PHOENIX
                                                                                    Finance Department
                         SECTION V – SCOPE OF WORK                                  Procurement Division
                                                                                251 W. Washington St., 8th Flr.
                                                                                     Phoenix, AZ 85003


              6.3.4. Data Entry Columns.
              6.3.5. Form Stages.
              6.3.6. Form Security by Stage.
              6.3.7. Support for Text/Narratives.
              6.3.8. Data Volume Assumptions and Anticipated Performance Times.
              6.3.9. Required Custom Development (if applicable).
              6.3.10. Reporting supported by the form design.

       The contractor will provide a presentation of the completed mockup forms that
       walks through step-by-step how the form will be used in the business process.

       6.4. Personal Services Forecasting Configuration. As more fully described in the
       positions business requirements section of the Contract, design the personal
       services forecasting module and related tables’ configuration to project salary and
       benefits for full-time and part-time positions, for lump-sum pay types, and to
       maintain the authorized count. Review configuration settings with staff and explain
       how it will meet the business requirements.

       6.5. Security. The City anticipates that form security and reporting security will be
       separate. Reporting will generally be open-access; except, the City requires the
       ability to limit access to certain data associated with a particular fund center node.
       Form security will be based on a user’s role, and the fund center hierarchical
       node(s) to which they have access. The Contractor will identify user roles and
       access restrictions associated with each user role, explain how the roles will allow
       the City to meet its business requirements, and will provide a demonstration for
       the City on the administrative tools used to maintain user security/access.

       6.6. Workflow. The Contractor will provide a mockup or demonstration to the City
       of the workflow tools and proposed workflow process for form approval/stage
       advancement, and explain how the proposed workflow solution will meet the
       business requirements

              Deliverable 6.1. Master Data, Hierarchy and Attribute Design
              Deliverable 6.2. Automated SAP-to-System Interface
              Deliverable 6.3. System-to-SAP Interface
              Deliverable 6.4. PeopleSoft-to-System Interface
              Deliverable 6.5. Manual Data Interface
              Deliverable 6.6. Form Functional Specifications and Mockups
              Deliverable 6.7. Personal Services Forecasting Configuration



                                                                                   Page 72
Solicitation Number: RFP 18-288 (KFT)                                   Rev 1    09/2017 (JMK)
                                                                                   CITY OF PHOENIX
                                                                                  Finance Department
                         SECTION V – SCOPE OF WORK                                Procurement Division
                                                                              251 W. Washington St., 8th Flr.
                                                                                   Phoenix, AZ 85003


               Deliverable 6.8. User Roles and Access Restrictions
               Deliverable 6.9. Demonstration of User Security Administrative Tools
               Deliverable 6.10. Workflow Mockup/Demonstration

       Task 7 – Implementation Scope of Work
       The Contractor will prepare, for the City’s approval, a detailed scope of work for
       assignments two through five. Detailed scopes of work will include dates and
       responsible parties.

               Deliverable 7.1 – Assignment 2 Detailed Scope of Work: Data Conversion
                                  and Prototype
               Deliverable 7.2. – Assignment 3 Detailed Scope of Work: Configuration and
                                    Testing
               Deliverable 7.3. – Assignment 4 Detailed Scope of Work: Reporting and Go-
                                   Live
               Deliverable 7.4. – Assignment 5 Detailed Scope of Work: Post-Production
                                   Support

       Task 8 – Project Management Documents
       Prepare the final PMP, Project Schedule, Quality and Test Plan, Risk and
       Mitigation Plan, and System Training Plan for City review and approval.

               Deliverable 8.1 – Project Management Plan
               Deliverable 8.2 – Project Schedule
               Deliverable 8.3 – Quality Plan and Test Plan
               Deliverable 8.4 – Risk and Mitigation Plan
               Deliverable 8.5 – System Training Plan

17. PROPOSAL SUBMITTAL REQUIREMENTS
     a. Tab 1: Administrative Documents
        Provide the following documents, and any other administrative materials that
        may be specified by the City through addenda:
              Table of Contents
              Authorized Representative
              Acknowledgements of Solicitation Addenda
              Conflict of Interest and Solicitation Transparency Disclosure Form
              Statement of Bonding Ability



                                                                                 Page 73
Solicitation Number: RFP 18-288 (KFT)                                 Rev 1    09/2017 (JMK)
                                                                                     CITY OF PHOENIX
                                                                                    Finance Department
                         SECTION V – SCOPE OF WORK                                  Procurement Division
                                                                                251 W. Washington St., 8th Flr.
                                                                                     Phoenix, AZ 85003


     b. Tab 2: Executive Summary
        Provide an executive summary of the proposal, including the following
        information at a minimum:
              Name of proposed budget system and version.
              Name of proposed reporting tool and version.
              Name of proposed cloud-hosting platform.

     c. Tab 3: Product Information and Tab 4: Draft Maintenance Agreements
        List any software that the City is required to purchase or license under the
        proposal for implementation, or that will be required during the 10-year period of
        maintenance support. This includes cloud hosting platforms, end-user clients
        (other than Microsoft Windows and internet browsers), tools, system
        components, databases, cloud management software, and browser plug-ins.
        This also includes tools that may be required during the project development but
        not for on-going support. The City assumes that procurement of all such items
        will be accomplished by the respondent, at a cost integrated in the respondent’s
        bid. Any additional cost incurred later that is not included in respondent’s bid will
        be at respondent’s own expense. For each such item, the below information must
        be provided; except, where components of SAP Business Warehouse/ Business
        Intelligence (Version 7.5 with the Business Objects Suite version
        4.2/enhancement package 5.0) or Oracle Business Intelligence are proposed,
        their license type, term, and restrictions may be noted as N/A:
              Name
              Version
              Purpose/Use
              Manufacturer
              End of Life (if known)
              Respondent’s Relationship with Manufacturer (Manufacturer, Reseller,
               Partner, etc.)
              Number of Licenses. Split by user type, if applicable. Assume the City will
               have 180 users of the budget system (including 5 administrators) (with a
               peak load at any one time of 150 users) and 250 users of the reporting tools.
              License Type
              License Term (Perpetual Preferred)
              License Restrictions (If Any)




                                                                                   Page 74
Solicitation Number: RFP 18-288 (KFT)                                   Rev 1    09/2017 (JMK)
                                                                                         CITY OF PHOENIX
                                                                                        Finance Department
                         SECTION V – SCOPE OF WORK                                      Procurement Division
                                                                                    251 W. Washington St., 8th Flr.
                                                                                         Phoenix, AZ 85003


              Note whether source code escrow services are available, and at what cost
               (note: do not incorporate this cost in the price proposal; source code escrow
               services are optional)
              Attach Draft Maintenance Agreement (If Applicable) (including scope of
               work and supporting hours)

     d. Tab 5: Minimum Requirements
        Verify the following minimum requirements for submission are met
        (affirmative responses are sufficient except where otherwise noted). A
        negative response to any of these requirements will remove the proposal
        from consideration.
              Proposed budget system is an existing commercial-off-the-shelf product.
              Proposed solution incorporates a cloud-hosting model.
              Firm experience: Respondent and/or respondent’s subcontractor(s) have
               implemented (into a production environment) the proposed budget system
               (including all modules that are planned to be implemented as part of this
               project) for a minimum of two state, county or municipal entities, each with
               a combined operating and capital budget greater than $500 million within
               the last five years. Indicate the two client entities, the year of go-live, a brief
               statement of the scope of services provided, and name and contact
               information for a current employee of the client entity who can verify the
               information provided.
              Proposed solution is compatible with Microsoft Windows version 7 and later
               versions.
              Proposed solution is compatible with at least one of the following: Microsoft
               Internet Explorer release version 11 and later, or Google Chrome release
               version 63 and later.
              Ability to provide a live demonstration of the product (i.e. not a video) upon
               request.
              Respondent accepts the Planned Project Structure, and Project Tasks and
               Deliverables, sections of this document as drafted, reflects these sections
               in the bid proposal, and is willing and able to execute the sections as
               drafted. Note: this does not restrict the City and the selected respondent
               from mutually agreeing to changes to the Planned Project Structure, and
               Project Tasks and Deliverables, sections during the contract award
               process.




                                                                                       Page 75
Solicitation Number: RFP 18-288 (KFT)                                       Rev 1    09/2017 (JMK)
                                                                                     CITY OF PHOENIX
                                                                                    Finance Department
                         SECTION V – SCOPE OF WORK                                  Procurement Division
                                                                                251 W. Washington St., 8th Flr.
                                                                                     Phoenix, AZ 85003


     e. Tabs 6: Firm Capabilities (30 Points)
        Respondent is an established firm that is capable of completing the project.
         Identify the following information regarding the respondent firm. Additionally,
         provide this information for any subcontractor that will be conducting more than
         50 percent of the work under this Contract.
              Number of years performing similar services.
              Number of clients and geographic locations the respondent currently
               serves.
              Names and titles of headquarters and regional office executives who may
               supervise the services performed under the contract.
              Organizational structure, including any parent companies, headquarters,
               regional offices, subsidiaries; location of the product owner within the
               organizational structure; and location of the key personnel within the
               organizational structure.

     f. Tab 7: Product Satisfaction and Solution Implementation History By Key
        Personnel (140 Points)
        The proposed key personnel (project manager, functional lead, technical
        lead, reporting lead, and solution architect) have successfully and recently
        implemented the proposed product with several clients like the City.
         For at least two public-sector clients with an annual budget of at least $1 billion
         and/or 500,000 population that have implemented the proposed product within
         the last five years and for which the proposed key personnel were involved
         (preferably in their roles as proposed for this RFP), identify the following:
              Client organization and reference contact information.
              Summary scope of services performed.
              Original contract award amount for implementation, excluding licenses,
               hosting and maintenance cost.
              Final implementation cost, excluding licenses, hosting and maintenance
               cost.
              Original scheduled go-live date.
              Actual go-live date.
              Summary of change orders (dollar value, time extension, and summarized
               purpose).




                                                                                   Page 76
Solicitation Number: RFP 18-288 (KFT)                                   Rev 1    09/2017 (JMK)
                                                                                       CITY OF PHOENIX
                                                                                      Finance Department
                         SECTION V – SCOPE OF WORK                                    Procurement Division
                                                                                  251 W. Washington St., 8th Flr.
                                                                                       Phoenix, AZ 85003


              Percentage of business requirements listed in the original contract that were
               successfully achieved.
              For proposed key personnel, identify the individual’s role during the
               referenced implementation.
              Identify any changes that were made to key personnel during the course of
               the project.
         Note that the information provided above for each implementation will be
         provided to the listed reference for validation by the reference and/or other
         employees of the reference’s agency. Additionally, references will be consulted
         regarding the current satisfaction with the product, and with the implementation.
         Identify any public-sector clients that initiated implementation projects for the
         proposed product within the last five years, but terminated work prior to
         implementation. Provide an explanation for why the implementation was
         terminated. Client statements regarding reasons for termination may be
         included.

     g. Tab 8: Experience of Key Personnel (80 Points)
        Proposed key personnel have extensive experience in public-sector
        budget system implementation.
         Identify the proposed project manager, functional lead, technical lead, reporting
         lead, and solution architect for the implementation (roles may overlap), identify
         the following:
              Name.
              Proposed role.
              Proposed time commitment as a percentage of full-time.
              For each project the individual has participated in, identify:
                  o Client.
                  o Start and end date.
                  o System implemented.
                  o Role.
                  o Operating budget involvement.
                  o Capital budget involvement.
                  o Personal services forecasting involvement.
                  o Reporting involvement.



                                                                                     Page 77
Solicitation Number: RFP 18-288 (KFT)                                     Rev 1    09/2017 (JMK)
                                                                                    CITY OF PHOENIX
                                                                                   Finance Department
                         SECTION V – SCOPE OF WORK                                 Procurement Division
                                                                               251 W. Washington St., 8th Flr.
                                                                                    Phoenix, AZ 85003


                  o Reference name and contact information (only required for two
                    projects completed within the last five years).

     h. Tab 9: Business Requirements and Tab 10: Screenshots (300 Points)
        Proposed solution meets the City’s functional and technical requirements.
         Respond to each requirement listed in the attached Business Requirements
         document. For each requirement, in the cell drop-down, identify whether the
         requirement would be accomplished through:
              Standard product/configuration. This response indicates that the product
               meets the requirement as-is, with or without standard configuration settings
               being applied, and the City could apply future patches and updates readily
               without modifying the implemented solution.
              Minor customization: This response indicates that the requirement would be
               met through custom code, but the City could apply future patches and
               updates readily without modifying the implemented solution, AND the
               customization is anticipated to require no more than 40 hours of work to
               develop and unit-test. This response may also be indicated if the
               respondent would meet the requirement through an enhancement to the
               base product to be distributed to all clients – this should be specifically
               identified in the “Response Explanation” field.
              Major customization. This response indicates that the requirement would be
               met through custom code, and custom code would potentially complicate or
               restrict the City’s ability to apply future patches and updates, OR the
               customization is anticipated to require more than 40 hours of work to
               develop and unit-test. Indicate the estimated development and unit-testing
               time.
              Alternative solution or approach. If the respondent believes that the
               underlying business requirement can be best met through an approach
               other than the approach proposed by the City, thoroughly explain the
               proposed solution.
              Is not offered. The business requirement is not met, or could only be met a
               customization to the underlying structure of the product that would prohibit
               the City’s ability to apply future product patches or updates.
         Completing the “Response Explanation” field is optional, except where
         “Explanation Required” is indicated. In the response explanation column, explain
         specifically how the proposed product would meet the stated requirement, and
         include other amplifying information requested in the business requirement
         statement. Do not repeat the requirement in your response. Row heights (only)


                                                                                  Page 78
Solicitation Number: RFP 18-288 (KFT)                                  Rev 1    09/2017 (JMK)
                                                                                        CITY OF PHOENIX
                                                                                       Finance Department
                         SECTION V – SCOPE OF WORK                                     Procurement Division
                                                                                   251 W. Washington St., 8th Flr.
                                                                                        Phoenix, AZ 85003


         may be adjusted to accommodate length of response text. To assist
         explanations, respondents may provide numbered screenshots in a separate
         document and reference the screenshot numbers in the explanation column.
         Each screenshot should be annotated with the corresponding requirement
         number(s).
         Enter the respondent name in the page header of each Excel worksheet tab.
         Do not make any further edits to the Excel template.

     i. Tab 11: Project Approach (70 Points)
         Respondent understands the City’s stated business requirements and has
         a plan to deliver a solution meeting those requirements effectively and
         efficiently.
         Include the following items in the description of your project plan/approach:
         Indicate the respondent’s proposed staffing model for the project. For any
         personnel anticipated to have a significant role in the project, that were not
         identified as key personnel above, provide a brief summary of relevant
         experience. Which personnel are full time employees? Which are contract
         employees? Indicate the contract duration for any contract employees. If any of
         the proposed personnel are not currently under contract/employment with the
         respondent, so indicate.
         Indicate involvement and relationships with third party vendors or subconsultants
         intended to be associated with the project.
         Indicate whether the City’s indicated staff availability will be sufficient to complete
         the project, or what additional staff resources are advised.
         Explain the proposed project development/delivery methodology (agile, waterfall,
         etc.), and why the proposed approach is the best fit for the project.
         Changes to key personnel of the City or the respondent pose a risk to project
         completion. How will the respondent minimize the risk of changes to the
         respondent’s key personnel?
         The City’s BRASS system does not contain all budgetary data, master data
         attributes, and master data hierarchies included in the City’s budget reports.
         Many of the City’s budget reports are developed manually outside of the budget
         system using a myriad of spreadsheets and databases. The City anticipates that
         nearly all budget reports will be able to be run directly from the budget system in
         the future state. How will the respondent assure this objective can be met given
         the challenges and business requirements involved?


                                                                                      Page 79
Solicitation Number: RFP 18-288 (KFT)                                      Rev 1    09/2017 (JMK)
                                                                                    CITY OF PHOENIX
                                                                                   Finance Department
                         SECTION V – SCOPE OF WORK                                 Procurement Division
                                                                               251 W. Washington St., 8th Flr.
                                                                                    Phoenix, AZ 85003


         Indicate any additional critical perceived risks to successful project completion,
         and mechanisms that can be implemented to mitigate those risks.

     j. Tab 12: Implementation Schedule (30 Points)
        Proposed solution can be in production within 24 months of notice-to-
        proceed.
         For each item below, indicate the estimated completion date, based on the draft
         Master Scope of Work and the draft Work Assignment 1 Detailed Scope of Work.
         Date should be expressed in days from notice-to-proceed (for example, if the
         respondent believes Work Assignment 4 will be completed 365 days from notice-
         to-proceed, the respondent would indicate the Work Assignment 4 completion
         date is NTP+365).
              Work Assignment 1 (Base): Solution Design
              Work Assignment 2 (Base): Data Conversion and Initial Build
              Work Assignment 2 (Optional Task): SAP Master Data Interface
              Work Assignment 2 (Optional Task): BRASS Data Conversion
              Work Assignment 3 (Base): Configuration and Testing
              Work Assignment 4 (Base): Reporting and Go-Live
              Work Assignment 5 (Base): Post-Production Optional Task Development

     k. Price Proposal 100 Points
        Complete the Pricing Worksheet (Attachment F). Include all one-time and
        ongoing costs for implementation, licenses and 10 years of post-production
        maintenance and support. For third-party products, reflect the list price (and
        include a link), or include documentation from the manufacturer or reseller that
        the quoted discount rate will be honored.
         Provide separate sealed hard copies and an electronic copy of the Pricing
         Worksheet (Attachment F). Do not submit the Price Proposal tab in the Business
         Requirements response.


18. ATTACHMENTS:
   The following attachments are referenced and incorporated in this RFP:
       a. Attachment A - Business Requirements
       b. Attachment B - Work Assignment Acceptance Certificate Template




                                                                                  Page 80
Solicitation Number: RFP 18-288 (KFT)                                  Rev 1    09/2017 (JMK)
                                                                                    CITY OF PHOENIX
                                                                                   Finance Department
                         SECTION V – SCOPE OF WORK                                 Procurement Division
                                                                               251 W. Washington St., 8th Flr.
                                                                                    Phoenix, AZ 85003


       c. Attachment C - Sample Reports/Specifications (See business requirement
          RFP.LEVEL_OF_EFFORT.01 - .04)
       d. Attachment D - Current Decision Package Template Example(See business
          requirement OPER.DECISION_PKG.01)
       e. Attachment E - Vehicle Replacement List Example (See business requirement
          OPER.VEHICLES.01)
       f. Attachment F - Pricing Worksheet
       g. Attachment G - Product Demonstration Script


19. DEMONSTRATIONS:
    Offerors in the competitive range will be required to conduct a product demonstration,
    presentation and interview as attached (Attachment G), validating that the City’s
    stated business requirements can be met. The demonstration must be conducted on
    a live system (but not necessarily a client’s system). Demonstrations will be conducted
    in the attached sequence and should specifically illustrate compliance with the
    identified Business Requirements.




                                                                                  Page 81
Solicitation Number: RFP 18-288 (KFT)                                  Rev 1    09/2017 (JMK)
                                                                                    CITY OF PHOENIX
                                                                                   Finance Department
                              SECTION VI – SUBMITTALS                              Procurement Division
                                                                               251 W. Washington St., 8th Flr.
                                                                                    Phoenix, AZ 85003


SECTION VI: SUBMITTALS

1.     COPIES: Please submit one original, and one electronic copy (portable drive or CD) of
       the Submittal Section and all other required documentation. RFP responses must include
       the name of the organization, contact name, title, address, direct phone number and email
       address of the person who is authorized to respond to questions regarding the submittal.

       RFP responses must be sealed and clearly marked as “Public Sector Budgeting
       Software” and must be received by Friday, August 10, at 2:00 P.M., local Arizona time.

       Please submit only the Submittal Section, do not submit a copy of the entire
       solicitation document. This offer will remain in effect for a period of 365 calendar days
       from the bid opening date and is irrevocable unless it is in the City’s best interest to do
       so.

2.     OFFER SUBMITTAL FORMAT: The written offer must be signed by an individual
       authorized to bind Offeror and should provide the name, title, e-mail address and
       telephone number of individuals with authority to contractually bind the company and who
       may be contacted during the evaluation period. Offers should be:
             Typewritten for ease of evaluation, minimum 12 pt font;
             Submitted in a binder, preferably using double-sided copying and at least 30% post
              consumer content paper;
             Signed by an authorized representative of the Offeror;
             Submitted with contact information for the individual(s) authorized to negotiate with
              the City;
             Submitted with a table of contents and tabbed according to the following major
              sections:
                      Tab 1 – Administrative Documents
                      Tab 2 – Executive Summary (Maximum 1 page)
                      Tab 3 – Product Information (Maximum 4 pages)
                      Tab 4 – Draft Maintenance Agreements
                      Tab 5 – Minimum Requirements (Maximum 2 pages)
                      Tab 6 – Firm Capabilities (Maximum 4 pages)
                      Tab 7 – Product Satisfaction and Solution Implementation History by
                        Key Personnel (Maximum 12 pages)
                      Tab 8 – Experience of Key Personnel (Maximum 12 pages)
                      Tab 9 – Business Requirements (Maximum 120 pages)
                            o Do not alter formatting or file structure provided in the RFP.
                            o Electronic copy must be provided in Excel format.
                                                                                               Page 82
Offeror Name: _________________________________________                        Rev 1     09/2017 (JMK)
                                                                                      CITY OF PHOENIX
                                                                                     Finance Department
                              SECTION VI – SUBMITTALS                                Procurement Division
                                                                                 251 W. Washington St., 8th Flr.
                                                                                      Phoenix, AZ 85003


                             o Hard copies must be printed in color.
                                 Sec. A. Summary
                                 Sec. B. Technical
                                 Sec. C. Master Data
                                 Sec. D. Interfaces
                                 Sec. E. Security
                                 Sec. F. Data Entry Forms
                                 Sec. G. Performance
                                 Sec. H. Operating Budget
                                 Sec. I. Positions
                                 Sec. J. Central Revenue
                                 Sec. K. CIP Budget
                                 Sec. L. CIP Sandbox
                                 Sec. M. CIP Project Information
                                 Sec. N. Workflow
                                 Sec. O. Reporting
                         Tab 10 – Screenshots. May be provided in a separate binder if
                          needed.
                         Tab 11 – Project Approach (Maximum 8 pages)
                         Tab 12 – Implementation Schedule (Maximum 1 page)
                         Separate Sealed Envelope and Excel Spreadsheet – Pricing
                          Worksheet
3.     OFFER: All offers shall be firm and fixed for a period of 365 calendar days from the
       solicitation opening date. Pass-through offer adjustments will be accepted after that date
       provided said adjustment(s) are submitted in writing with thirty days’ advance notice and
       are accompanied by written documentation of a manufacturer's offer increase. Offer
       adjustment requests shall be sent to: City of Phoenix City of Phoenix Finance
       Department, Procurement Division, 251 W. Washington Street, 8th Floor, Phoenix, AZ.

4.     COSTS AND PAYMENTS:
       4.1 PAYMENT TERMS & OPTIONS: Vendors must choose an option, if a box is not
           checked, the City will default to 0% - net 45 days:

        Contractor offers a prompt payment discount of either _______% - 30 days or              0% –
           45 days - to apply after receipt of invoice or final acceptance of the products
           (invoice approval), whichever date is later, starts the 30 days. If no prompt payment
           discount is offered, the default is 0%, net 45 days; effective after receipt of invoice or
           final acceptance of the products, whichever is later. Payment terms offering a
           discount will not be considered in the price evaluation of your offer.
                                                                                                 Page 83
Offeror Name: _________________________________________                          Rev 1     09/2017 (JMK)
                                                                                    CITY OF PHOENIX
                                                                                   Finance Department
                              SECTION VI – SUBMITTALS                              Procurement Division
                                                                               251 W. Washington St., 8th Flr.
                                                                                    Phoenix, AZ 85003



        Contractor may be paid immediately upon invoice approval, if enrollment is made to
           the Single Use Account (SUA) Program, administered by the City’s servicing bank
           (“Bank”). By checking this box, the vendor accepts transaction costs charged by
           their merchant bank and agrees not to transfer to the City those extra charges. The
           City will not pay an increase in our services for the SUA charges; if an audit
           uncovers an upcharge for the SUA charges the vendor will owe the City all costs.
           The vendor may opt-out of the SUA program once, but then may not rejoin during
           the same contract term.

5.     BID PRICE SCHEDULE: As instructed in Section V, Scope of Work, the proposer must
       complete the Pricing Worksheet submittal.

6.     CERTIFICATION REGARDING DEPARTMENT SUSPENSIO, AND OTHER
       INELIGIBILITY AND VOLUNTARY EXCLUSION: The prospective participant
       (Contractor for a federally funded project) certifies, by submission of this solicitation and
       certification, that neither it nor its principals are presently debarred, suspended, proposed
       for debarment, declared ineligible, or voluntarily excluded from participation in this
       transaction by any federal department or agency.

       Where the prospective participant is unable to certify to any of the statements in this
       certification, such participant shall attach an explanation to this solicitation.

       THE PARTICIPANT (Contractor for a federally funded project), CERTIFIES OR AFFIRMS
       THE TRUTHFULNESS AND ACCURACY OF THE CONTENTS OF THE STATEMENTS
       SUBMITTED ON OR WITH THIS CERTIFICATION AND UNDERSTANDS THAT THE
       PROVISIONS OF 31 U.S.C. 3801 ET SEQ. ARE APPLICABLE THERETO.

       Authorized Official:                        _________________________

       Title of Authorized Official:               _________________________

       Date:                                       _________________________




                                                                                               Page 84
Offeror Name: _________________________________________                         Rev 1    09/2017 (JMK)
                                                                                  CITY OF PHOENIX
                                                                                 Finance Department
                              SECTION VI – SUBMITTALS                            Procurement Division
                                                                             251 W. Washington St., 8th Flr.
                                                                                  Phoenix, AZ 85003


OFFER

TO THE CITY OF PHOENIX - The Undersigned hereby offers and agrees to furnish the
material and or service(s) in compliance with all terms, conditions, specifications, and addenda
issued as a result of solicitation and any written exceptions in the offer.
  Arizona Sales Tax No.
  Use Tax No. for Out-of State Suppliers
  City of Phoenix Sales Tax No.
  Arizona Corporation Commission File No.

Taxpayer’s Federal Identification No.: If recommended for contract award, Bidder agrees to
provide its federal taxpayer identification number or as applicable its social security number to
the City of Phoenix for the purposes of reporting to appropriate taxing authorities, monies paid
by the City of Phoenix under the awarded contract. If the Bidder provides its social security
number, the City will only share this number with appropriate state and federal officials. This
submission is mandatory under 26 U.S.C. § 6041A.

 Enter City’s Registration System ID Number
 Located at City’s eProcurement website (see
 SECTION I – INSTRUCTIONS - CITY’S
 REGISTRATION)

Offeror has read, understands, and will fully and faithfully comply with this solicitation, its
attachments and any referenced documents. Offeror certifies that the prices offered were
independently developed without consultation with any other Offeror or potential Offerors.

                                                                     __               _____
Authorized Signature                                      Date

                                                          ___________________________
Verify Name and type of company                           Printed Name and Title
(LLC, Inc., Sole Proprietor)                              (Member, Manager, President)



 Address
 City, State and Zip Code
 Telephone Number
 Company’s Fax Number
 Company’s Toll Free #
 Email Address
                                                                                              Page 85
Offeror Name: _________________________________________                       Rev 1    09/2017 (JMK)
                                                                                      CITY OF PHOENIX
                                                                                     Finance Department
                              SECTION VI –SUBMITTALS                                 Procurement Division
                                                                                 251 W. Washington St., 8th Flr.
                                                                                      Phoenix, AZ 85003


 ACCEPTANCE OF OFFER

 The Offer is hereby accepted.

 The Contractor is now bound to sell the material(s) or service(s) listed by the attached
 contract and based upon the solicitation, including all terms, conditions, specifications,
 amendments, etc. and the Contractor’s Offer as accepted by the City.

 This contract shall henceforth be referred to as Contract No.                 . The
 Contractor has been cautioned not to commence any billable work or provide any
 material or service under this contract until Contractor receives purchase order, or
 contract documentation.

 CITY OF PHOENIX
 A Municipal Corporation
 Ed Zuercher, City Manager


 _________________________________ Awarded this _____day of ________________2017
 Director or delegate, Department




 __________________________________
 City Clerk



 Approved as to form this 19th day of January 2017. This document has been approved as to
 form by the City Attorney and is on file with the City Clerk. It need not be submitted to the City
 Attorney for approval unless the form document is altered.




                                                                                                 Page 86
Offeror Name: _________________________________________                               Rev 1     09/2017
(JMK)
                                                                                      CITY OF PHOENIX
                                                                                     Finance Department
                                  SECTION VI –SUBMITTALS                             Procurement Division
                                                                                 251 W. Washington St., 8th Flr.
                                                                                      Phoenix, AZ 85003


CONFLICT OF INTEREST AND SOLICITATION TRANSPARENCY FORM.
This form must be signed and submitted to the City and all questions must be answered, or indicate
N/A, or your Offer may be considered non-responsive.

1. Name of person submitting this disclosure form.


 First                                   MI        Last                               Suffix
2. Contract Information
Solicitation # or Name:
3. Name of individual(s) or entity(ies) seeking a contract with the City (i.e. parties to the Contract)




4. List any individuals(s) or entity(ies) that are owners, partners, parent, sublessees, joint venture,
   or subsidiaries of the individual or entity listed in Question 3. Please include all Board members,
   executive committee members and officers for each entry. If not applicable, indicate N/A.




5. List any individuals or entities that will be subcontractors on this contract or indicate N/A.



    Subcontractors may be retained, but not known as of the time of this submission.
    List of subcontracts, including the name of the owner(s) and business name:


6. List any attorney, lobbyist, or consultant retained by any individuals listed in Questions 3, 4, or 5
   to assist in the proposal or seeking the resulting contract. If none, indicate N/A.




7. Disclosure of conflict of interest:



                                                                                                 Page 87
    Offeror Name: _________________________________________                           Rev 1     09/2017
    (JMK)
                                                                                   CITY OF PHOENIX
                                                                                  Finance Department
                                 SECTION VI –SUBMITTALS                           Procurement Division
                                                                              251 W. Washington St., 8th Flr.
                                                                                   Phoenix, AZ 85003


Are you aware of any fact(s) with regard to this solicitation or resulting contract that would
raise a “conflict of interest” issue under City Code Section 43-34?
 “An elected City official or a City employee shall not represent any person or business for
 compensation before the City regarding any part of a procurement, including any resulting
 contract, if during the time the elected official is or was in office or the employee is or was
 employed by the City such elected official or employee played a material or significant role in
 the development of the solicitation, any other part of the procurement, or the contract award.”
     I am not aware of any conflict(s) of interest under City Code Section 43-34.
     I am aware of the following potential or actual conflict(s) of interest:




8. Notice Regarding Prohibited Interest in Contracts


State law and the Phoenix City Charter and Code prohibit public officers or employees, their close
relatives, and any businesses they, or their relatives, own from (1) representing before the City any
person or business for compensation, (2) doing business with the City by any means other than
through a formal procurement, and (3) doing business with the City without disclosing that the
person has an interest in the contract. This prohibition extends to subcontracts on City contracts and
also applies to parent, subsidiary, or partner businesses owned by a public officer or employee. See
A.R.S. Sections 38-501 through 38-511, for more information (City Charter, Chapter 11, applies the
state conflict-of-interest law to City employees).

Please note that any contract in place at the time a person becomes a public officer or employee
may remain in effect. But the contract may not be amended, extended, modified, or changed in any
manner during the officer’s or employee’s city service without following city administrative
regulations.

Are you aware of any fact(s) with regard to this contract that would raise a “conflict of
interest” issue under A.R.S. Sections 38-501 through 38-511 (See Arizona Revised
Statutes regarding conflict of interest at www.azleg.gov).
    I am not aware of any conflict(s) of interest under Arizona Revised Statutes Sections
      38-501 through 38-511.
    I am aware of the following conflict(s) of interest:




                                                                                              Page 88
    Offeror Name: _________________________________________                        Rev 1     09/2017
    (JMK)
                                                                                     CITY OF PHOENIX
                                                                                    Finance Department
                                 SECTION VI –SUBMITTALS                             Procurement Division
                                                                                251 W. Washington St., 8th Flr.
                                                                                     Phoenix, AZ 85003




9. Acknowledgements

Solicitation Transparency Policy – No Contact with City Officials or Staff During Evaluation

      I understand that a person or entity who seeks or applies for a city contract, or any other
       person acting on behalf of that person or entity, is prohibited from contacting city officials and
       employees regarding the contract after a solicitation has been posted.


      This “no-contact” provision only concludes when the contract is awarded at a City Council
       meeting. If contact is required with City official or employees, the contact will take place in
       accordance with procedures by the City. Violation of this prohibited contacts provision, set out
       in City Code Sections 2-190.4 and 43-36, by respondents, or their agents, will lead to
       disqualification.


10. Fraud Prevention and Reporting Policy


    I acknowledge that the City has a fraud prevention and reporting policy and takes fraud
     seriously. I will report fraud, suspicion of fraud, or any other inappropriate action to:
     telephone no. 602-261-8999 or 602-534-5500 (TDD); or aud.integrity.line@phoenix.gov.

The purpose of the fraud policy is to maintain the City's high ethical standards. The policy includes a
way for our business partners to report wrongdoing or bad behavior. Suspected fraud should be
reported immediately to the Phoenix Integrity Line. The City has adopted a zero-tolerance policy
regarding fraud.

                                                   OATH

I affirm that the statements contained in this form, including any attachments, to the best of my
knowledge and belief are true, correct, and complete.
Should any of the answers to the above questions change during the course of the contract,
particularly as it relates to any changes in ownership, applicant agrees to update this form with the
new information within 30 days of such changes. Failure to do so may be deemed a breach of
contract.




PRINT NAME                                                       TITLE


                                                                                                Page 89
    Offeror Name: _________________________________________                          Rev 1     09/2017
    (JMK)
                                                                         CITY OF PHOENIX
                                                                        Finance Department
                                SECTION VI –SUBMITTALS                  Procurement Division
                                                                    251 W. Washington St., 8th Flr.
                                                                         Phoenix, AZ 85003




SIGNATURE                                                    DATE



COMPANY (CORPORATION, LLC, ETC.) NAME and DBA




                                                                                    Page 90
   Offeror Name: _________________________________________               Rev 1     09/2017
   (JMK)
