                   Request for Proposals
      20RFP057 Language Immersion Instructional Program

            Date                                                          Event
16 and 22, 2019                   Dates of public notice

October 23, 2019                  Due date for questions by 5:00 pm (anita.muscarella@austinisd.org)

October 25, 2019                  Questions and answers posted on our website

November 5, 2019                  RFP opening / due date at 2:00 pm CST


      Deliver Sealed Proposals to:                          Contact:
      Austin ISD                                            Anita Muscarella
      Contract & Procurement Services                       Senior Procurement Specialist
      4000 South IH-35 Frontage Road                        Phone: 512-414-9800
      Austin, Texas 78704                                   anita.muscarella@austinisd.org


         Questions must be submitted via e-mail to the contact person listed above.
          In the e-mail subject line, type: Questions 20RFP057 Language Immersion

         Q & A and addenda will be posted on our website: www.austinisd.org/cp/bids

         Proposals are due no later than 2:00 pm on the date indicated. Your proposal must be
          delivered by mail or hand delivery in a sealed envelope or carton. Proposals received after
          the specified time shall not be considered.

         Please submit the following:
                Required
                   o One (1) hard copy proposal marked “original” – include signed “required” forms
                Requested
                   o One (1) digital copy proposal on a flash drive – include signed “required” forms

         FAX, e-mail or other electronic proposals will not be accepted.

         Proposals must be plainly marked with:
                        Name and address of the respondent
                        RFP number and title above




            This solicitation is a request for proposals for services under Texas Education Code 44.031.
Austin ISD – Request for Proposals 20RFP057 Language Immersion Instructional Program

                                   Checklist and Submission Guidelines
       This checklist is provided to help you conform to all form/document requirements stipulated in this solicitation
       and attached herein. This is not a required form. It is not necessary to return this checklist with your proposal.

  I.         Understanding the Proposal
       Completed

                  Read entire RFP document, appendices and attachments
                  Review AISD Policy and Instructions
                  Attend pre-proposal conference (not required)
                  Submit questions properly before deadline
                  Review addenda, Q&A and other additional attachments
                  Review Proposal Format section of RFP

 II.         Forms
       Completed | Required

           |                Bid Certification

           |                Notification of Criminal History of Contractor

           |                Debarment, Suspension and Ineligibility Certification

           |                Conflict of Interest Questionnaire (CIQ) – electronic

           |                Strategic Partner Profile

           |                EDGAR Vendor Certification

           |                Software Vendor Certification Form


III.         Submitting the Proposal
       Completed

                  Prepare the proposal in the format specified and sign all required forms
                  Submit required hard copy marked “original”
                  Submit requested quantity of digital copies on flash drive
                  Package proposal in sealed envelope or carton properly labelled
                  Deliver proposal to delivery address by RFP opening / due date and time
Austin ISD – Request for Proposals 20RFP057 Language Immersion Instructional Program



                                          Table of Contents

       Section I                     Introduction


       Section II                    Historically Underutilized Business (HUB) Program Requirement


       Section III                   Proposal Format


       Section IV                    Initial Review of Proposals


       Section V                     Competitive Selection / Evaluation


       Section VI                    Scope of Service and Performance Requirements


       Section VII                   Appendices and Attachments
Austin ISD – Request for Proposals 20RFP057 Language Immersion Instructional Program

     I.     INTRODUCTION

          The Austin Independent School District (herein after referred to as “AISD” or the “district”) is
          seeking proposals from firms qualified and experienced in partnering with AISD’s Multilingual
          Education team to provide a language immersion program that will reach a diverse group of
          students, including students from economically disadvantaged backgrounds.

          Austin ISD reserves the right to award a contract for any or all areas of this RFP. AISD will make
          awards to qualified respondents providing the best proposal based on a combination of the
          program plan, scope of services, vendor’s capabilities and pricing. A Service Agreement will be
          executed with a successful vendor as a result of this process. A preview only copy of AISD’s
          Service Agreement is available on our website and should not be returned with a proposal.

          Austin ISD educates more than 80,000 students and embraces 129 diverse school communities
          in one of the fastest-growing, ever-changing metroplexes in the country. In partnership with
          parents and our community, Austin ISD's mission is to provide a comprehensive educational
          experience that is high quality, challenging, and inspires all students to make a positive
          contribution to society. We partner with world-class universities, innovative businesses and
          nonprofit organizations and engaged community leaders to prepare our students for college,
          career and life.

    II.     HISTORICALLY UNDERUTILIZED BUSINESS (HUB) PROGRAM REQUIREMENTS

          The HUB Program promotes and strongly encourages the involvement and participation of
          Historically Underutilized Businesses in District-wide procurements. According to AISD policies
          CH (LOCAL) and CV (LOCAL), the HUB Program guidelines are not applicable for this type
          procurement.

   III.     PROPOSAL FORMAT

                 A.     Preface
                        The vendor shall provide an executive summary of two (2) pages or less, which
                        gives in brief, concise terms, a summation of the proposal.

                 B.     Proposal
                        The vendor’s proposal itself shall be organized in the following format and
                        informational sequence:

                        Section I – Summary of Experience

                        This section shall contain the full name and address of the vendor submitting the
                        proposal and a brief summary of the vendor’s experience and individual
                        experience for personnel who will provide this product or service.

                        Section II - Scope of Service

                        A description of services and capabilities as outlined in the Scope of Service and
                        Performance Requirements sections of this RFP, in the order shown. Clearly state
Austin ISD – Request for Proposals 20RFP057 Language Immersion Instructional Program

                        any exceptions taken to the specifications of this RFP, or any conditions of the
                        proposal.

                        Section III - Financial Proposal

                        This section shall contain a straightforward, concise delineation of the vendor’s
                        fees to satisfy the requirements of this RFP. It is the vendor’s responsibility to
                        specify all costs (i.e. administrative fees, processing fees, etc.) associated with
                        providing the products or services required herein.

                        Section IV – References

                        References are to be from government agencies and/or firms, which are
                        substantially serviced by the vendor (references most similar to Austin ISD
                        should be provided). Each reference must contain the reference’s name,
                        address, telephone number, and point of contact (including email address). A
                        list of at least three (3) references from current customers must be provided.

               C.       Required Forms
                        Forms are required with Original response & flash drive only; they can be
                        excluded from any additional requested copies.

                        Vendor shall execute the following required forms and return the signed original
                        with the proposal:

                              Bid Certification
                              Notification of Criminal History of Contractor
                              Debarment, Suspension and Ineligibility Certification
                              EDGAR Vendor Certification
                              Conflict of Interest Questionnaire (CIQ). The CIQ is prepared by the Texas
                               Ethics Commission, in compliance with Chapter 176 of the Texas Local
                               Government Code. The form should be submitted on-line at Conflict of Interest
                               Questionnaire - CIQ.

   IV.     INITIAL REVIEW OF PROPOSALS

         Any contractor determined non-responsible or any proposal determined non-responsive will not
         be evaluated further. The contractor will be notified of a non-responsible or non-responsive
         determination.

         Responsive
         In order for a proposal to be responsive:

                       ALL required forms listed above shall be signed and included with proposal;
                       Proposal shall be received prior to the RFP opening date at the address listed on
                        the cover page;
                       Proposal shall respond to the entire scope of service and performance
                        requirements as requested.
Austin ISD – Request for Proposals 20RFP057 Language Immersion Instructional Program

         Responsible
         In order for a proposal to be responsible, the contractor shall be in good financial standing with
         the Texas Comptroller of Public Accounts.

    V.     COMPETITIVE SELECTION / EVALUATION

            A.       This is a NEGOTIATED procurement and as such, award will not necessarily be made
                     to the offeror submitting the lowest priced proposal. Award will be made to the firm
                     submitting the best responsive proposal satisfying AISD’s requirements, price and
                     other factors considered.

            B.       The district anticipates that the evaluation process may include multiple levels of
                     evaluation, as for example, but not limited to:
                     Phase 1: Initial review of the proposal by the district’s evaluation team.
                     Phase 2: Interviews and/or presentations of top proposals from Phase 1, followed by
                     administrative review of finalist(s) and award recommendation.

                     PHASE 1

                   Points             Item                               Detailed Description

                                                        The adequacy and completeness of the plan offered
                 30 Points   Proposed Plan
                                                        addressing the Scope of Service.

                                                        The demonstrated ability of the vendor to provide
                 40 Points   Vendor’s Capabilities
                                                        services, including references.

                                                        Start-up costs, fixed costs as well as rebate incentives
                 30 Points   Financial Proposal
                                                        to determine best value.


                     PHASE 2 (optional)

                   Points             Item                               Detailed Description

                                                        The adequacy and completeness of the plan offered
                 35 Points   Interview / Presentation
                                                        addressing the Scope of Service.

                                                        The demonstrated ability of the vendor to provide
                 35 Points   Vendor’s Capabilities
                                                        services, including references.

                 30 Points   Financial Proposal         Reasonable and customary fees for providing services.




            C.       The committee evaluating the proposals submitted in response to this RFP may
                     require any or all vendors to give an oral presentation in order to clarify or elaborate
                     on their proposal as well as to provide a demonstration. Upon completion of oral
                     presentations or discussions, vendors may be requested to revise any or all portions
                     of their proposals and submit a best and final offer (BAFO) for consideration.
Austin ISD – Request for Proposals 20RFP057 Language Immersion Instructional Program



           D.     If the district determines that additional evaluation steps are required to determine the
                  best value between vendors, the district reserves the right to consider any or all of the
                  following additional criteria; the proposed price, vendor’s experience, references and
                  record for responsibility, or any other relevant factor that the district deems necessary
                  to determine best value.
Austin ISD – Request for Proposals 20RFP057 Language Immersion Instructional Program

   VI.    SCOPE OF SERVICE AND PERFORMANCE REQUIREMENTS

          Term
          The agreement(s) resulting from this solicitation will be in effect for an initial term of one (1)
          year from the date of award by the Board of Trustees, or such date established by the
          agreement. The parties by mutual consent may renew the agreement for up to four (4)
          additional one (1) year periods. In addition, the district reserves the right to extend the contract
          for an additional time beyond the final expiration date if necessary to ensure no lapse in
          service.

          The following describes the service and performance requirements that the selected vendor
          will be required to meet. Failure to address or to fully describe capabilities to accomplish all
          elements of this section will result in a loss of evaluation points. The District will use the
          objective criteria specified within to review proposals and will make an award to an
          acceptable program provider.

          1. Partner with AISD’s Multilingual Education team to provide a language immersion program
             that will reach a diverse group of students, including students from economically
             disadvantaged backgrounds.
          2. Provide instructors, curriculum, lesson plans and ongoing assessment for a language
             immersion program for K-5 students.
          3. Staff classes with a full-time professional teacher, as needed, whose academic
             background, professional experience and specialization areas include language education
             and childhood education or related fields.
          4. Ensure that all teachers meet applicable AISD vetting requirements.
          5. Ensure that all teachers understand proper protocol with AISD administrators, school
             principals and faculty.
          6. Ensure that all teachers understand the expectations of their site school and its schedule.
          7. Ensure that learners develop high levels of language proficiency and literacy, as well as
             academic and cultural competency.
          8. Administrative staff collaboration with AISD and campus staff.
Austin ISD – Request for Proposals 20RFP057 Language Immersion Instructional Program

  VII.    APPENDICES AND ATTACHMENTS (included within this proposal)

            Appendices
                  Appendix 1 – Purchasing and Acquisition Vendor Relations Policy CHE-LOCAL
            Attachments
                  Austin ISD Policy and Instructions
                  Austin ISD Service Agreement (sample – do not complete)
                  Bid Certification
                  Notification of Criminal History of Contractor
                  Debarment, Suspension and Ineligibility Certification
                  Strategic Partner Profile
                  EDGAR Vendor Certification
                Appendix 1
Purchasing and Acquisition Vendor Relations
            Policy CHE-LOCAL




            4 pages including this cover page
Austin ISD
227901

PURCHASING AND ACQUISITION                                                              CHE
VENDOR RELATIONS                                                                     (LOCAL)


Contacting Board        Vendors shall not contact Board members individually for the pur-
Members                 pose of soliciting a purchase or contract during the restricted con-
                        tract period.
                        If a vendor violates this prohibition during this time frame, consid-
                        eration of the vendor for award shall be invalidated. Board mem-
                        bers shall be notified of possible violations and actions taken.
  Restricted Contact    The restricted contact period shall begin upon the date of issuance
  Period                of a solicitation and shall end upon execution of the awarded con-
                        tract by all parties.
                        In an effort to demonstrate its commitment to ethical procurement
                        and contracting standards, and to improve accountability and pub-
                        lic confidence, all District purchases of goods and services through
                        competitive methods as provided in CH(LEGAL) and CV(LEGAL)
                        shall be subject to a restricted contact period. Except as provided
                        in this policy communication between a vendor and vendor’s rep-
                        resentative, and a Board member, the Superintendent, assistant
                        superintendent, chief, officer, executive director, principal, depart-
                        ment head, director, manager, project manager, or any other Dis-
                        trict representative who has influence on or is participating in the
                        evaluation or selection process is prohibited.
    Prohibited          A vendor and vendor’s representative are prohibited from commu-
    Communications      nications regarding the particular solicitation at issue that are in-
                        tended or reasonably likely to:
                        1.   Provide substantive information regarding the subject of the
                             solicitation;
                        2.   Advance the interests of the vendor;
                        3.   Discredit the response of any other vendor;
                        4.   Encourage the District to reject a response by a bidder;
                        5.   Convey a complaint about the solicitation; or
                        6.   Directly or indirectly ask, influence, or persuade a Board
                             member, the Superintendent, assistant superintendent, chief,
                             officer, executive director, principal, department head, direc-
                             tor, manager, project manager, or any other District repre-
                             sentative who has influence on or is participating in the evalu-
                             ation or selection process, to take action or refrain from taking
                             action on any vote, decision, or agenda item regarding the so-
                             licitation at issue.
    Permissible         A vendor and vendor’s representative are permitted to communi-
    Communications      cate with the District regarding the following:


DATE ISSUED: 7/5/2018                                                                    1 of 3
LDU 2018.08
CHE(LOCAL)-X
Austin ISD
227901

PURCHASING AND ACQUISITION                                                               CHE
VENDOR RELATIONS                                                                      (LOCAL)


                        1.   Communication to the extent the communication relates sole-
                             ly to a nonsubstantive, procedural matter related to a re-
                             sponse or solicitation;
                        2.   Communication that relates solely to an existing contract be-
                             tween a respondent and the District, even when the scope,
                             products, or services of the current contract are the same or
                             similar to those contained in an active solicitation;
                        3.   Communication with the District’s Office of Contract and Pro-
                             curement Services;
                        4.   Communication with the District’s Historically Underutilized
                             Business (HUB) Program Department to the extent the com-
                             munication relates to obtaining a listing of HUB subcontrac-
                             tors and general questions regarding HUB program compli-
                             ance requirements;
                        5.   Communication between an attorney representing a vendor
                             and an attorney representing the District;
                        6.   Communication with the District in the course of attendance at
                             vendor conference;
                        7.   Communication with the District for the purpose of the Dis-
                             trict’s evaluation of the bidder’s proposal, negotiating the
                             scope of work, or engaging in contract negotiations;
                        8.   Communication with the District for the purpose of making a
                             public presentation to the Board; and
                        9.   Communication made during the course of a formal protest
                             hearing related to the solicitation.
    Other Vendor        Regardless of the above time period, a vendor and a vendor’s rep-
    Participation and   resentative who participate in the drafting or development of tech-
    Communication       nical specifications or evaluation criteria for any project are prohib-
                        ited from competing in the solicitation for such project.
                        A vendor and vendor’s representative shall send all communica-
                        tions, questions, and requests for clarification in writing and ad-
                        dressed to the District’s authorized representative identified in the
                        solicitation. The District shall post responses to vendor questions
                        as an addendum to the solicitation.
                        Nothing in this policy shall prohibit the District’s representative from
                        initiating contact with a vendor, in writing, for the purpose of obtain-
                        ing clarifying information regarding a solicitation response. The
                        vendor’s response shall be in writing and shall be provided to the
                        District’s authorized representative.


DATE ISSUED: 7/5/2018                                                                     2 of 3
LDU 2018.08
CHE(LOCAL)-X
Austin ISD
227901

PURCHASING AND ACQUISITION                                                               CHE
VENDOR RELATIONS                                                                      (LOCAL)


    Complaints          Any person who is aggrieved in connection with a HUB program
                        policy decision may file a complaint in accordance with
                        GF(LOCAL).
    Violations          The following are violations subject to sanctions:
                        1.   Falsely conceal or cover up a material fact or make any false,
                             fictitious, or fraudulent statements, reports, or
                             representations, or make use of any false writing, document,
                             or electronic report knowing the same to contain any false,
                             fictitious, or fraudulent statement.
                        2.   Fraudulently obtain, retain or attempt to obtain, or aid another
                             in fraudulently obtaining, retaining, or attempting to obtain cer-
                             tification status as a HUB.
                        3.   Make false reports regarding payments made to subcontrac-
                             tors or sub-consultants.
    Sanctions           Any person who violates the provisions of this section shall be sub-
                        ject to the following sanctions and to the maximum penalties pro-
                        vided by law:
                        1.   The District may bar, suspend, or deem nonresponsive in fu-
                             ture District solicitations and contracts, for a period of up to
                             five years, any bidder or proposer, or contractor or subcon-
                             tractor following notice and an opportunity for a hearing in ac-
                             cordance with the protest procedures in this policy.
                        2.   The District may, by contract, and where appropriate and law-
                             ful, impose an administrative penalty.
                        3.   In addition to other sanctions available to the District, the vio-
                             lation of any provision of these program rules may be includ-
                             ed as an incident of breach in each contract.
    Request for         Each request for proposal and bid invitation shall include a copy of
    Proposal and Bid    this policy.
    Invitation




DATE ISSUED: 7/5/2018                           ADOPTED:                                  3 of 3
LDU 2018.08
CHE(LOCAL)-X
                                        BID CERTIFICATION
The undersigned Bidder (Contractor), by signing and executing this bid, certifies and represents to the
Austin Independent School District that Bidder has not offered, conferred or agreed to confer any
pecuniary benefit, as defined by § 1.07(a)(6) of the Texas Penal Code, or any other thing of value, as
consideration for the receipt of information or any special treatment or advantage relating to this bid; the
Bidder also certifies and represents that Bidder has not offered, conferred or agreed to confer any
pecuniary benefit or other things of value as consideration for the recipient's decision, opinion,
recommendation, vote or other exercise of discretion concerning this bid; the Bidder certifies and
represents that Bidder has neither coerced nor attempted to influence the exercise of discretion by any
officer, trustee, agent or employee of the Austin Independent School District concerning this bid on the
basis of any consideration not authorized by law; the Bidder also certifies and represents that Bidder has
not received any information not available to other bidders so as to give the undersigned a preferential
advantage with respect to this bid; the Bidder further certifies and represents that Bidder has not violated
any state, federal or local law, regulation or ordinance relating to bribery, improper influence, collusion
or the like and that Bidder will not in the future, offer, confer, or agree to confer any pecuniary benefit
or other thing of value to any officer, trustee, agent or employee of the Austin Independent School
District in return for the person having exercised the person's official discretion, power or duty with
respect to this bid; the Bidder certifies and represents that it has not now and will
not in the future offer, confer, or agree to confer a pecuniary benefit or other thing of value to any officer,
trustee, agent or employee of the Austin Independent School District in connection with information
regarding this bid, the submission of this bid, the award of this bid or the performance, delivery or sale
pursuant to this bid.


FIRM NAME


PHONE __________________________________________                    EMAIL____________________________


ADDRESS_____________________________________________________________________________


CITY________________________________ STATE________________ ZIP ______________________


SIGNED BY                                                           TITLE


PRINTED NAME                                                        DATE




Austin ISD Contract & Procurement Services
          NOTIFICATION OF CRIMINAL HISTORY OF CONTRACTOR
                           Statutory citation is found in the Texas Education Code §44.034.

Subsection (a): A person or business entity that enters into a contract with a school district must give
advance notice to the district if the person or an owner or operator of the business entity has been
convicted of a felony. The notice must include a general description of the conduct resulting in the
conviction of a felony.

Subsection (b): A school district may terminate a contract with a person or business entity if the district
determines that the person or business entity failed to give notice as required by Subsection (a) or
misrepresented the conduct resulting in the conviction. The district must compensate the person or
business entity for services performed before the termination of the contract.

Subsection (c): This section does not apply to a publicly held corporation.

I, the undersigned officer or agent for the contractor named below, certify that the information
concerning notification of criminal history of contractor has been reviewed by me and the
following information furnished is true and correct to the best of my knowledge.


VENDOR’S NAME:

AUTHORIZED COMPANY OFFICIAL’S NAME:

Check only one of the following:

       My firm is a publicly-held corporation; therefore, this reporting requirement is not applicable.

       My firm IS NOT owned nor operated by anyone who has been convicted of a felony.

       My firm IS owned or operated by the following individual(s) who has/have been convicted of a
        felony.

        Name of Felon(s):
                                                 (attach additional sheet if necessary)
        Details of Conviction(s):
                                                               (attach additional sheet if necessary)




Signature of Company Official:




Austin ISD Contract & Procurement Services
DEBARMENT, SUSPENSION AND INELIGIBILITY CERTIFICATION
            Statutory citation is found in the U.S. Office of Management and Budget Circular A-102,
                       2 CFR 11 Part 215, and Federal Acquisition Regulation Subpart 9.4



Federal agencies, state agencies, and local governments, including the Austin Independent School
District, shall solicit offers from, award contracts to, and consent to subcontracts with responsible
contractors only. OMB Circular A-102, Grants and Cooperative Agreements with State and Local
Governments, Section 1 (d), requires that Austin ISD shall not award a contract to a contractor, or consent
to a subcontract with a contractor, that is debarred, suspended, proposed for debarment, or otherwise
declared ineligible.

“Contractor” means any individual or other legal entity that – (1) Directly or indirectly submits offers
for or is awarded a Federal Government or Austin ISD contract or a subcontract under a Federal
Government or Austin ISD contract; or (2) Conducts business, or reasonably may be expected to conduct
business, with the Federal Government or Austin ISD.

A contract award with an amount expected to equal or exceed $25,000 and certain other contract awards
shall not be made to contractors that are listed on the Federal Government Excluded Parties List. Ref: 2
CFR 11 Part 215

Contractors submitting a bid or proposal in an amount expected to equal or exceed $25,000 shall certify
that neither their organization nor principal officers and agents nor subcontractors are debarred,
suspended, proposed for debarment, or otherwise declared ineligible by a Federal agency.

I, the undersigned officer or agent for the contractor named below, certify that neither this
organization nor principal officers and agents nor subcontractors are debarred, suspended,
proposed for debarment, or otherwise declared ineligible by a Federal agency.


    VENDOR’S NAME:

    Authorized Officer or Agent:

Printed name of company official signing above:

    Date Signed:




Austin ISD Contract & Procurement Services
                                       Policy and Provisions

Policy
Procurement of goods and services shall be made by the method that provides the best value for the District.
This competitive solicitation is either an Invitation for Bids (IFB) or a Request for Proposals (RFP) advertised
under Texas Education Code 44.031 and Austin Independent School District policies:

         CAA,    Fiscal Management- Financial Ethics
         CH,     Purchasing and Acquisition;
         CHE,    Purchasing and Acquisition- Vendor Relations;
         CHF,    Purchasing and Acquisition- Payment Procedures;
         CHG,    Purchasing and Acquisition- Real Property and Improvements; and
         CHH,    Purchasing and Acquisition- Financing Personal Property Purchases.

Individuals or entities considering whether to submit a bid or proposal are encouraged to review the entirety
of these policies before submitting a bid or proposal. All can be accessed on Texas Association of School
Board’s (TASB) website 'https://pol.tasb.org/Home/Index/1146. Selected portions are re-stated here for
emphasis.

Ethics
         “All Trustees, employees, vendors, contractors, consultants, volunteers, and any other parties who
         are involved in the District’s financial transactions shall act with integrity and diligence in duties
         involving the District’s fiscal resources.” Policy CAA (Local)

Contacting Board Members
      “Vendors shall not contact Board members individually for the purpose of soliciting a purchase or
      contract during the restricted contract period. If a vendor violates this prohibition during this time
      frame, consideration of the vendor for award shall be invalidated. Board members shall be notified of
      possible violations and actions taken. The restricted contact period shall begin upon the date of
      issuance of a solicitation and shall end upon execution of the awarded contract by all parties.”
      Policy CHE (Local)

Opening Bids
       “Bids may be opened only by the Board at a public meeting or by an officer or employee of the
       District at or in an office of the District. A bid that has been opened may not be changed for the
       purpose of correcting an error in the bid price.” Local Gov’t Code 271.026, Policy CH (Legal)

         “The Board shall have the right to reject any and all bids.” Local Gov’t Code 271.027(a), Policy CH
         (Legal)

         “Bids and proposals may be withdrawn prior to the scheduled time for opening. Bids and proposals
         received after the specified time shall not be considered. The public and all proposers shall be invited
         to attend the bid or proposal opening. Competitive sealed proposals shall be opened at the time
         specified.” Policy CH (Local)
Bid openings and the receipt of proposals will be held at the offices of:
       Austin ISD
       Contract and Procurement Services
       4000 South IH-35 Frontage Road
       Austin, Texas 78704
Bids and proposals are due no later than 2:00 PM on the date indicated in the IFB or RFP.
Factors
          “In awarding a contract, the district shall consider:

          1. Purchase price.

          2. The reputation of the vendor and of the vendor’s goods and services.

          3. The quality of the vendor’s goods or services.

          4. The extent to which the goods or services meet the district’s needs.

          5. The vendor’s past relationship with the district.

          6.   The impact on the ability of the district to comply with laws relating to historically underutilized
               businesses.

          7. The total long-term cost to the district to acquire the goods or services.

          8.    For a contract that is not for goods and services related to telecommunications and information
               services, building construction and maintenance, or instructional materials, whether the vendor or
               the vendor’s ultimate parent company or majority owner has its principal place of business in this
               state or employs at least 500 persons in this state.

          9. Any other relevant factor specifically listed in the request for bids or proposals.

          Education Code 44.031(b), Policy CH (Legal)

 Required Contract Provision
        “A district may not enter into a contract with a company for goods and services unless the contract
        contains a written verification from the company that it does not boycott Israel and will not during
        the term of the contract. Gov’t Code 2270.002” Policy CH (Legal)

 Required Vendor Disclosures
       “The Texas Ethics Commission shall adopt a conflict of interest questionnaire that requires disclosure
       of a vendor’s business and family relationships with a district. Local Gov’t Code 176.006(b)
       A vendor shall file a completed conflict of interest questionnaire if the vendor has a business
       relationship with the district and:
       1. Has an employment or other business relationship with a local government officer of the district,
              or a family member of the officer, described by Local Government Code 176.003(a)(2)(A);
       2. Has given a local government officer of the district, or a family member of the officer, one or more
              gifts with the aggregate value specified by Local Government Code 176.003(a)(2)(B), excluding
              any gift described by Local Government Code 176.003(a-1); or
       3. Has a family relationship with a local government officer of the district.” Policy CH (Legal)

 Disclosure of Interested Parties
         “A district may not enter into a contract that requires an action or vote of the board before the
         contract may be signed, or has a value of at least $1 million, with a business entity unless the
         business entity submits a disclosure of interested parties to the district at the time the business
         entity submits the signed contract to the district. Gov’t Code 2252.908” Policy CH (Legal)

           Required Form – Certificate of Interested Parties (Form 1295)
           The disclosure of interested parties must be submitted on a form prescribed by the Texas Ethics
           Commission (TEC) that includes a list of each interested party for the contract of which the
        contracting business entity is aware; and a written, unsworn declaration subscribed by the
        authorized agent of the contracting business entity as true under penalty of perjury that is in
        substantially the form set out in Government Code 2252.908(e)(2). Gov’t Code 2252.908(e); 1 TAC
        46.5(a)

Encouragement of Small, Local, and HUB Firms’ Participation
       “The district shall attempt to include and encourage bids from small and local firms, as well as firms
       owned or operated by minorities or women. The District shall also promote and encourage race
       and gender neutral measures to ensure equal opportunity in contracting.” Policy CH (Local)

Recycled Products
       “The district shall give preference in purchasing to products made of recycled materials if the
       products meet applicable specifications as to quantity and quality.” Policy CH (Legal)

Agricultural Products
        “If the cost and quality are equal, the district shall give preference in purchasing to agricultural
        products, including textiles and other similar products that are produced, processed, or grown in
        Texas.” Policy CH (Legal)

Vegetation for Landscaping
        “If cost is equal and the quality is not inferior, the District shall give preference to Texas vegetation
        when it purchases vegetation for landscaping purposes.” Policy CH (Legal)


Additional Provisions

1. Interlocal Agreements with other School Districts through the Central Texas Purchasing Alliance

    A. Membership. Austin ISD is a member in good standing of the Central Texas Purchasing Alliance
    (CTPA) "www.txctpa.org, an alliance of over 100 school districts in Central Texas and throughout the
    state representing over 1.5 million students. Services include mentoring, sharing established contracts,
    providing developed specifications and boilerplates and establishing standards for cooperative venues.
    CTPA is an alliance created in accordance with Section 791.001 of the Texas Government Code through
    interlocal agreements.

    B. Adoption of Awarded Contracts. In support of this collaborative effort, all awards made by Austin ISD
    may be adopted by other active CTPA member districts. By adopting a contract from another CTPA
    member district, the adopting district has met the competitive bidding requirements established by the
    Texas Education Code, Section 44.031(a)(4) and as required by the adopting district’s policies. There
    is no obligation on either party to participate unless both parties agree. The goods and services provided
    under the contract will be at the same or better contract pricing and purchasing terms established by the
    originating district.

    C. Adopted Contract Management. The adopting district shall be responsible for the management of
    the new contract and all payments to the contracted vendor. The originating district shall have no
    responsibilities under the new contract agreement.

2. Interlocal Agreements with Government Entities

    Adoption of Awarded Contracts. Pursuant to the Texas Education Code 44.031 (a) (5), the Interlocal
    Cooperation Act, Chapter 791 of the Texas Government Code and Chapter 271 of the Texas Local
   Government Code, all awards made by Austin ISD may be adopted by other government entities, i.e.
   state agencies, local governments and school districts. By adopting a contract from another government
   entity, the adopting entity has met the competitive bidding requirements established by the Texas
   Education Code, Section 44.031(a)(4) and as required by the adopting entity’s policies. There is no
   obligation on either party to participate unless both parties agree. The goods and services provided
   under the contract will be at the same or better contract pricing and purchasing terms established by the
   originating entity.

   Adopted Contract Management. The adopting government entity shall be responsible for the
   management of the new contract and all payments to the contracted vendor. The originating entity shall
   have no responsibilities under the new contract agreement.

3. Contracts with Vendors Engaged in Business with Iran, Sudan, or Foreign Terrorist Organization
   prohibited.

   Pursuant to Texas Government Code, Chapter 2252, Section 2252.152 and Section 2252.153, Austin
   ISD is prohibited from entering into a contract for goods and services with a vendor that is on a list
   prepared and maintained by the Comptroller of the State of Texas as identified under Section 806.051
   (companies with business operations in Sudan), Section 807.051 (companies with business operations
   in Iran) or Section 2253.153 (companies known to have contracts with or provide supplies or services to
   a foreign terrorist organization).
   Debarment, Suspension and Ineligibility
   Pursuant to Texas Government Code, Chapter 2155.077, Austin ISD shall not solicit offers from, award
   contracts to, and consent to subcontracts with vendors and its principals that are debarred, suspended,
   proposed for debarment, declared ineligible, or otherwise excluded from doing business with the state
   or federal government as listed on the State of Texas Debarred Vendor List maintained by the Texas
   Comptroller of Public Accounts and the System for Award Management (SAM) maintained by the
   General Services Administration.
                                      Austin Independent School District
                                             Strategic Partner Profile


  Business Information

  Legal Business Name:

  Tax ID Number:

  Other Names the Business Uses (DBA, Subsidiaries):

  County where you are registered:

  What is your commodity

  How does your business support public education:

  Legal Status to do Business in Texas

  Ownership:

  Registered with the State Comptroller of Public Accounts:

  Registered with the Secretary of State:



  Historically Underutilized Business (HUB) Status (if applicable, attach certification)

  Certification with whom:

  Disadvantaged Business Enterprise (DBE) Certification:

  Minority Owned:

  Woman Owned:

  Physical and Mailing Addresses

  Corporate Headquarters:


Austin ISD Contract & Procurement Services        Page 1 of 2
  Offices Located in Texas:

  Address to send IFB (Invitation for Bid) and RFP (Request for Proposal)

  Address to Mail PO’s



  Contact Information

  Sales Contact Name

  Sales Contact Phone Number

  Sales Office Email

  Headquarters Phone Number

  Email Address to send PO’s to

  Fax Number to send PO’s to

  Website



  Miscellaneous

  DUNS Number

  Do you accept American Express P-Card (credit card)

  Cooperative Purchasing Alliances and State Contracts (include commencement and expiration dates of
  contract)




Austin ISD Contract & Procurement Services     Page 2 of 2
                                                     EDGAR CERTIFICATIONS

                        ADDENDUM FOR CONTRACT FUNDED BY U.S. FEDERAL GRANT

                                             (NON-CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTS)
This EDGAR Certifications addendum (“Addendum”) is made a part of a contract (“Contract”) between the Austin Independent School District
(“Austin ISD” or “District”) and the vendor (“Vendor”), where such contract and Vendor are referenced on the last page of this Addendum. The
following certifications and provisions are required and apply when Austin ISD expends federal funds for any contract resulting from this
procurement process. Accordingly, the parties agree that the following terms and conditions are incorporated and made a part of the
Contract in all situations where Vendor has been paid or will be paid with federal funds. Where there is a conflict between the terms
of this Addendum and the terms of the underlying Contract, the terms of this Addendum shall prevail.

I.       REQUIRED CONTRACT PROVISIONS FOR NON-FEDERAL ENTITY CONTRACTS UNDER FEDERAL AWARDS
                                       APPENDIX II TO 2 CFR PART 200

(A) Contracts for more than the simplified acquisition threshold currently set at $150,000, which is the inflation adjusted amount
determined by the Civilian Agency Acquisition Council and the Defense Acquisition Regulations Council (Councils) as authorized
by 41 U.S.C. 1908, must address administrative, contractual, or legal remedies in instances where contractors violate or breach
contract terms, and provide for such sanctions and penalties as appropriate.
         Pursuant to Federal Rule (A) above, when Austin ISD expends federal funds, Austin ISD reserves all rights and privileges under the
         applicable laws and regulations with respect to this procurement in the event of breach of contract by either party.
                                                                                       ________ Initials of Authorized Representative of Vendor

(B) Termination for cause and for convenience by the grantee or subgrantee including the manner by which it will be effected and
the basis for settlement. (All contracts in excess of $10,000)
         1.   Termination for Cause: Pursuant to Federal Rule (B) above, when Austin ISD expends federal funds, Austin ISD reserves the
              right to immediately terminate any contract in excess of $10,000 resulting from this procurement process in the event of a breach
              or default of the agreement by Vendor in the event Vendor fails to: (1) meet schedules, deadlines, and/or delivery dates within
              the time specified in the procurement solicitation, contract, and/or a purchase order; (2) make any payments owed; or (3)
              otherwise perform in accordance with the contract and/or the procurement solicitation.

         2.   Termination for Non-Appropriation of Funds for Multi-year or Multiple-year Contracts: Performance by Austin ISD under
              the Contract for years subsequent to the current may be dependent upon the appropriation and allotment of funds by the Texas
              State Legislature (the “Legislature”), allocation of funds by the Board of Trustees (the “Board”), and/or, if the Contract is funded
              fully or partially by Federal grant awards, the receipt of the Notice of Grant Award (“NOGA”). If the Legislature fails to appropriate
              or allot the necessary funds, the Board fails to allocate the necessary funds, and/or there is a change in the NOGA, then the
              District may terminate this Contract without further duty or obligation under the Contract.

         3.   Termination for Convenience: Austin ISD also reserves the right to terminate the contract immediately upon written notice to
              Vendor for convenience, with or without cause, if Austin ISD believes in its sole discretion that it is in the best interest of Austin
              ISD to do so.

         If the contract is terminated in accordance with any of the terms referenced in Section (B) above, Austin ISD shall compensate
         Vendor for any work performed and accepted and goods accepted by Austin ISD as of the termination date. Any award under this
         procurement process is not exclusive and Austin ISD reserves the right to purchase goods and/or services from other vendors when
         it is in Austin ISD’s best interest.
                                                                                       ________ Initials of Authorized Representative of Vendor




EDGAR Certifications Addendum (Non-Construction Contracts) v. 12.15.2016                                                               Page 1 of 4
(C) Rights to Inventions Made Under a Contract or Agreement. If the Federal award meets the definition of “funding agreement”
under 37 CFR §401.2 (a) and the recipient or subrecipient wishes to enter into a contract with a small business firm or nonprofit
organization regarding the substitution of parties, assignment or performance of experimental, developmental, or research work
under that “funding agreement,” the recipient or subrecipient must comply with the requirements of 37 CFR Part 401, “Rights to
Inventions Made by Nonprofit Organizations and Small Business Firms Under Government Grants, Contracts and Cooperative
Agreements,” and any implementing regulations issued by the awarding agency.
         Pursuant to Federal Rule (F) above, when federal funds are expended by Austin ISD, Vendor certifies that during the term of an
         award for all contracts by Austin ISD resulting from this procurement process, Vendor agrees to comply with all applicable
         requirements as referenced in Federal Rule (F) above.
                                                                                     ________ Initials of Authorized Representative of Vendor

(D) Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7401-7671q.) and the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1251-1387), as amended—Contracts
and subgrants of amounts in excess of $150,000 must contain a provision that requires the non-Federal award to agree to comply
with all applicable standards, orders or regulations issued pursuant to the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7401-7671q) and the Federal
Water Pollution Control Act as amended (33 U.S.C. 1251- 1387). Violations must be reported to the Federal awarding agency and the
Regional Office of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA).
         Pursuant to Federal Rule (G) above, when federal funds are expended by Austin ISD, Vendor certifies that during the term of an
         award for all contracts by Austin ISD resulting from this procurement process, Vendor agrees to comply with all applicable
         requirements as referenced in Federal Rule (G) above.
                                                                                     ________ Initials of Authorized Representative of Vendor


(E) Debarment and Suspension (Executive Orders 12549 and 12689)—A contract award (see 2 CFR 180.220) must not be made to
parties listed on the government wide exclusions in the System for Award Management (SAM), in accordance with the OMB
guidelines at 2 CFR 180 that implement Executive Orders 12549 (3 CFR part 1986 Comp., p. 189) and 12689 (3 CFR part 1989 Comp.,
p. 235), “Debarment and Suspension.” SAM Exclusions contains the names of parties debarred, suspended, or otherwise excluded
by agencies, as well as parties declared ineligible under statutory or regulatory authority other than Executive Order 12549.
         Pursuant to Federal Rule (H) above, when federal funds are expended by Austin ISD, Vendor certifies that during the term of an
         award for all contracts by Austin ISD resulting from this procurement process, Vendor certifies that neither it nor its principals is
         presently debarred, suspended, proposed for debarment, declared ineligible, or voluntarily excluded from participation by any federal
         department or agency.

                                                                                     ________ Initials of Authorized Representative of Vendor

(F) Byrd Anti-Lobbying Amendment (31 U.S.C. 1352)—Contractors that apply or bid for an award exceeding $100,000 must file the
required certification. Each tier certifies to the tier above that it will not and has not used Federal appropriated funds to pay any
person or organization for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a member of Congress,
officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a member of Congress in connection with obtaining any Federal contract, grant
or any other award covered by 31 U.S.C. 1352. Each tier must also disclose any lobbying with non-Federal funds that takes place in
connection with obtaining any Federal award. Such disclosures are forwarded from tier to tier up to the non-Federal award.
         Pursuant to Federal Rule (I) above, when federal funds are expended by Austin ISD, Vendor certifies that during the term and after
         the awarded term of an award for all contracts by Austin ISD resulting from this procurement process, the vendor certifies that it is in
         compliance with all applicable provisions of the Byrd Anti-Lobbying Amendment (31 U.S.C. 1352). The undersigned further certifies
         that:

              (1) No Federal appropriated funds have been paid or will be paid for on behalf of the undersigned, to any person for influencing
                  or attempting to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of congress,
                  or an employee of a Member of Congress in connection with the awarding of a Federal contract, the making of a Federal
                  grant, the making of a Federal loan, the entering into a cooperative agreement, and the extension, continuation, renewal,
                  amendment, or modification of a Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement.

              (2) If any funds other than Federal appropriated funds have been paid or will be paid to any person for influencing or attempting
                  to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of congress, or an
                  employee of a Member of Congress in connection with this Federal grant or cooperative agreement, the undersigned shall
                  complete and submit Standard Form-LLL, “Disclosure Form to Report Lobbying”, in accordance with its instructions.




EDGAR Certifications Addendum (Non-Construction Contracts) v. 12.15.2016                                                             Page 2 of 4
               (3) The undersigned shall require that the language of this certification be included in the award documents for all covered
                   sub-awards exceeding $100,000 in Federal funds at all appropriate tiers and that all subrecipients shall certify and disclose
                   accordingly.
                                                                                       ________ Initials of Authorized Representative of Vendor


(G) Procurement of Recovered Materials — Vendor agrees to comply with Section 6002 of the Solid Waste Disposal Act, as amended by
the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, where applicable. The requirements of Section 6002 include procuring only items designated
in guidelines of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) at 40 CFR Part 247 that contain the highest percentage of recovered materials
practicable, consistent with maintaining a satisfactory level of competition, where the purchase price of the item exceeds $10,000 or the
value of the quantity acquired during the preceding fiscal year exceeded $10,000; procuring solid waste management services in a manner
that maximizes energy and resource recovery, and establishing an affirmative procurement program for procurement of recovered materials
identified in the EPA guidelines.
                                                                                       ________ Initials of Authorized Representative of Vendor


II.       RECORD RETENTION REQUIREMENTS FOR CONTRACTS INVOLVING FEDERAL FUNDS
When federal funds are expended by Austin ISD for any contract resulting from this procurement process, Vendor certifies that it will comply
with the record retention requirements detailed in 2 CFR § 200.333. Vendor further certifies that it will retain all records as required by 2 CFR
§ 200.333 for a period of three years after grantees or subgrantees submit final expenditure reports or quarterly or annual financial reports, as
applicable, and all other pending matters are closed.
                                                                                       ________ Initials of Authorized Representative of Vendor


III.      CERTIFICATION OF COMPLIANCE WITH THE ENERGY POLICY AND CONSERVATION ACT
When Austin ISD expends federal funds for any contract resulting from this procurement process, Vendor certifies that it will comply with the
mandatory standards and policies relating to energy efficiency which are contained in the state energy conservation plan issued in compliance
with the Energy Policy and Conservation Act (42 U.S.C. 6321 et seq.; 49 C.F.R. Part 18).
                                                                                       ________ Initials of Authorized Representative of Vendor


IV.       CERTIFICATION OF EQUAL EMPLOYMENT STATEMENT
It is the policy of Austin ISD not to discriminate on the basis of race, color, national origin, gender, limited English proficiency or handicapping
conditions in its programs. Vendor agrees not to discriminate against any employee or applicant for employment to be employed in the
performance of this Contract, with respect to hire, tenure, terms, conditions and privileges of employment, or a matter directly or indirectly
related to employment, because of age (except where based on a bona fide occupational qualification), sex (except where based on a bona
fide occupational qualification) or race, color, religion, national origin, or ancestry. Vendor further agrees that every subcontract entered into
for the performance of this Contract shall contain a provision requiring non-discrimination in employment herein specified, binding upon each
subcontractor. Breach of this covenant may be regarded as a material breach of the Contract.
                                                                                       ________ Initials of Authorized Representative of Vendor


V.        CERTIFICATION OF COMPLIANCE WITH BUY AMERICA PROVISIONS
Austin ISD has a preference for domestic end products for supplies acquired for use in the United States when spending federal funds
(purchases that are made with non-federal funds or grants are excluded from the Buy America Act). Vendor certifies that it is in compliance
with all applicable provisions of the Buy America Act.
                                                                                       ________ Initials of Authorized Representative of Vendor




EDGAR Certifications Addendum (Non-Construction Contracts) v. 12.15.2016                                                               Page 3 of 4
VI.        CERTIFICATION OF ACCESS TO RECORDS – 2 C.F.R. § 200.336
Vendor agrees that the District’s Inspector General or any of their duly authorized representatives shall have access to any books, documents,
papers and records of Vendor that are directly pertinent to Vendor’s discharge of its obligations under the Contract for the purpose of making
audits, examinations, excerpts, and transcriptions. The right also includes timely and reasonable access to Vendor’s personnel for the purpose
of interview and discussion relating to such documents.
                                                                                    ________ Initials of Authorized Representative of Vendor

VII.       CERTIFICATION OF APPLICABILITY TO SUBCONTRACTORS
Vendor agrees that all contracts it awards to any subcontractors pursuant to the Contract with Austin ISD shall be bound by the foregoing
terms and conditions.
                                                                                    ________ Initials of Authorized Representative of Vendor


THE FOLLOWING SECTION TO BE COMPLETED BY AUSTIN ISD PROCUREMENT SERVICES DEPARTMENT ONLY:


          Contract / Solicitation Number (if applicable): __________________________________


          Contract / Solicitation Title (if applicable): _______________________________________________________________________

          General Description of Underlying Contract Covered Under this Addendum:
           ________________________________________________________________________________________________________
           ________________________________________________________________________________________________________
           ________________________________________________________________________________________________________
           ________________________________________________________________________________________________________
           ________________________________________________________________________________________________________



BY SIGNING BELOW, THE VENDOR AGREES TO COMPLY WITH ALL APPLICABLE FEDERAL, STATE, AND LOCAL LAWS, RULES,
REGULATIONS, AND ORDINANCES. IT IS FURTHER ACKNOWLEDGED THAT VENDOR CERTIFIES COMPLIANCE WITH ALL
PROVISIONS, LAWS, ACTS, REGULATIONS, ETC. AS SPECIFICALLY NOTED ABOVE.

Vendor’s Business Name:__________________________________________________________________________________


Address, City, State, and Zip Code (Principal place of business): _________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________________________________

Printed Name of Authorized Representative: __________________________________________________________________
Title of Authorized Representative: __________________________________________________________________________

Phone Number: ____________________________________ Email Address: _______________________________________



Signature of Authorized Representative: ________________________________________ Date: ___________________________




EDGAR Certifications Addendum (Non-Construction Contracts) v. 12.15.2016                                                          Page 4 of 4
