 CITY OF PORT ORANGE, FLORIDA

        REQUEST FOR PROPOSAL
                 RFP #20-02
      UTILITY BILLING SOFTWARE




       City of Port Orange Purchasing Division

Prepared by David Van Valkenburgh, Purchasing Agent
          Release Date: February 11, 2020


     Proposal Due Date and Time:
     March 17, 2020 at 2:30 P.M.

               City of Port Orange, Florida
                 1000 City Center Circle
                 Port Orange, FL 32129
                     (386) 506-5704
             purchdiv@port-orange.org
                  www.port-orange.org


            RFP #20-02 Utility Billing Software       Page 1 of 78
                                          Legal Notice to Vendors

                                   RFP #20-02 UTILITY BILLING SOFTWARE

Notice is hereby given that the City of Port Orange is soliciting proposals for UTILITY BILLING
SOFTWARE. Proposals will be accepted in the City Clerk’s Office, Port Orange City Hall, 1000 City Center
Circle, Port Orange, Florida 32129 until 2:30 P.M. on March 17, 2020, which may be amended by addendum
issued by the City. All untimely proposals will not be considered and will be returned to the Vendor
unopened. All proposals will be evaluated to ensure they contain all required forms in order to deem the
Vendor responsive or non-responsive. Proposals will be opened and Proposers Names will be read aloud
at 2:30 P.M. in the council chambers located on the first floor of City Hall, 1000 City Center Circle, Port
Orange Florida, 32129.

There will be a Non-Mandatory Pre-Proposal Bid Conference for the project at 11:00 A.M. (local time) on
February 25, 2020 at City Hall, Council Chambers (1st floor), 1000 City Center Circle, Port Orange, Florida
32129. All attendees to the Pre-Proposal Conference must sign in. The representative of each Bidder
shall be an authorized employee of the Bidder and shall sign in accordingly. Bidders are encouraged to
attend the Non-Mandatory Pre-Proposal Conference and are urged to obtain Bid documents and familiarize
themselves with the documents prior to the Pre-Proposal meeting.

DESCRIPTION: The City of Port Orange Finance Department, Customer Service Division is requesting sealed
proposals from interested and qualified vendors of utility billing software. The required functions of Utility
Billing Software are dictated by the City of Port Orange Ordinance and are incorporated in Appendix A –
Functional Requirements. The required and desired capabilities are all listed in Appendix A and each should
be addressed in the proposal. The City is also desiring expanded customer service capabilities and staff
productivity through utilization of the state-of-the-art technology.
All Requests for Proposals are solicited and will be evaluated on the criteria outlined in the RFP. An evaluation
committee primarily comprised of City staff has been appointed to evaluate and rank the Proposals received
in accordance with the Code of Ordinances, City of Port Orange, Chapter 2, Article VI, Division 2, and the
Policies and Procedures as set forth in the City’s Purchasing Manual. Code of Ordinances, City of Port Orange
is on file in the Office of the City Clerk, City Hall, 1000 City Center Circle, Port Orange, Florida,
32129, and at www.municode.com.

Copies of the Bid documents, requirements, scope of service and all other pertinent information necessary to
submit a complete package may be obtained electronically from the City of Port Orange website at
www.port-orange.org/bids.aspx and DemandStar via their website at www.demandstar.com. All
questions shall be directed in writing to the to the Purchasing Agent, David Van Valkenburgh,
dvanvalkenburgh@port-orange.org or purchdiv@port-orange.org and reference “Questions on RFP #20-02
UTILITY BILLING SOFTWARE” in the subject line. Last day for questions will be March 3, 2020 at 5:00 P.M.

All Vendors are required to complete and submit a Public Entity Crime Statement, the Anti-Collusion Statement,
and Drug Free Tie Proposal Preference Statement, as well as other documents as required by the solicitation.

NO proposal shall be withdrawn for a period of ninety (90) days subsequent to the proposal opening without
the consent of the City of Port Orange, Florida.

No proposals received after the time and date specified for the opening will be considered. The City of Port
Orange, Florida reserves the right to reject any and all proposals, to waive any and all non-substantial
irregularity in Proposals received, whenever such waiver or rejection is in the best interest of the City.

                                     RFP #20-02 Utility Billing Software                                Page 2 of 78
Proposals shall be submitted in the City Clerk’s office with one (1) original and one (1) identical digital version in
pdf format on CD or USB flash/thumb drive, addressed to the Purchasing Division, Finance Department, City Hall,
1000 City Center Circle, Port Orange, Florida, 32129 in a SEALED ENVELOPE/PACKAGE plainly marked on the
outside: “RFP #20-02 UTILITY BILLING SOFTWARE”.

David Van Valkenburgh, Purchasing Agent
Legal Ad - One Time – February 11, 2020




                                [Remainder of this page left intentionally blank]




                                       RFP #20-02 Utility Billing Software                                   Page 3 of 78
Cut along the outer border and affix this label to your sealed proposal envelope to identify it as a “Sealed
Proposal”. Be sure to include the name of the company submitting the proposal where requested.


                                  SEALED PROPOSAL           DO NOT OPEN



            SEALED PROPOSAL NO.                                   RFP #20-02

            PROPOSAL TITLE:                             UTILITY BILLING SOFTWARE


            DUE DATE/TIME:                              March 17, 2020 at 2:30 P.M.



            SUBMITTED BY:                                (Name of Company)




           DELIVER TO:                      City of Port Orange City Clerk’s Office
                                            Attn: David Van Valkenburgh
                                            Purchasing Agent
                                            Finance Department
                                            1000 City Center Circle
                                            Port Orange, Florida, 32129




            DATE/TIME RECEIVED:
                                               (To be stamped by Clerk’s Office)




                                     RFP #20-02 Utility Billing Software                              Page 4 of 78
                                                            Contents
SECTION 1 – PURPOSE AND OVERVIEW........................................................................................................................ 6
SECTION 2 – INSTRUCTIONS TO VENDORS ................................................................................................................... 7
SECTION 3 – SCOPE OF SERVICES ................................................................................................................................ 11
APPENDIX A – SYSTEM FUNCTIOANAL REQUIREMENTS ............................................................................................. 17
APPENDIX B – VENDOR HOSTED SOLUTION QUESTIONS .......................................................................................... 23
APPENDIX C – PRICING/COST PROPOSAL (example) .................................................................................................. 28
SECTION 4 – STANDARD PURCHASE DEFINITIONS ...................................................................................................... 29
SECTION 5 – GENERAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS....................................................................................................... 32
SECTION 6 – SPECIAL CONDITIONS ............................................................................................................................. 58
SECTION 7 – PROPOSAL SUBMITTAL & REQUIREMENTS ............................................................................................ 61
SECTION 8 – EVALUATION OF PROPOSALS ................................................................................................................. 63
SECTION 9 – REQUIRED FORMS .................................................................................................................................. 68
FORM 9.1 – PROPOSAL CHECK LIST ............................................................................................................................. 68
FORM 9.2 – VENDOR’S ACKNOWLEDGEMENT FORM ................................................................................................. 69
FORM 9.3 – ADDENDUM and CHANGE ORDER PROCEDURE ACKNOWLEDGEMENT .................................................. 70
FORM 9.4 – DRUG FREE PREFERENCE STATEMENT ..................................................................................................... 71
FORM 9.5 – SWORN STATEMENT UNDER § 287.133(3)(A), FLORIDA STATUTES, ON PUBLIC ENTITY CRIMES ............ 72
FORM 9.6 – ANTI-COLLUSION FORM ........................................................................................................................... 73
FORM 9.7 – LOCAL BUSINESS AFFIDAVIT OF ELIGIBILITY ............................................................................................. 74
FORM 9.8 – PROFESSIONAL REFERENCES FOR PREVIOUS EXPERIENCE ...................................................................... 75
ATTACHMENT 1 – PROPOSAL FORM ........................................................................................................................... 77




                                                        RFP #20-02 Utility Billing Software                                                                 Page 5 of 78
                                    SECTION 1 – PURPOSE AND OVERVIEW

The purpose for this Request for Proposals (RFP) is to solicit competitive sealed proposals from Firms or
Companies (Vendors) for utility billing software for contract term of Five (5) year from date of Notice to
Proceed. Contract will be renewable for up to two (2) one (1) year renewal periods.

The City of Port Orange Finance Department, Customer Service Division is requesting sealed proposals from
interested and qualified vendors of utility billing software. The required functions of Utility Billing Software are
dictated by the City of Port Orange Ordinance and are incorporated in Appendix A – Functional Requirements.
The required and desired capabilities are all listed in Appendix A and each should be addressed in the proposal.
The City is also desiring expanded customer service capabilities and staff productivity through utilization of the
state-of-the-art technology.


It is the intent and purpose of the City of Port Orange (City) that this Request for Proposal promotes competitive
selection. It shall be the Vendor’s responsibility to advise the Purchasing Division if any language, requirements,
etc., or any combination thereof, inadvertently restricts or limits the requirements stated in this RFP to a single
source.




                                [Remainder of this page left intentionally blank]




                                      RFP #20-02 Utility Billing Software                                  Page 6 of 78
                                              SECTION 2 – INSTRUCTIONS TO VENDORS

Firms or companies (Vendor) desiring to provide services, as described herein shall submit sealed proposals,
including one original copy, and one (1) identical digital version in PDF format on CD or USB flash/thumb drive, in
conformance with the detailed submittal instructions.

TIMELINE (Local Time):

The City reserves the right to alter dates as needed.
Date of Distribution: .......................................................................................................... February 11, 2020
Non-Mandatory Pre-Proposal Conference . ............................................... February 25, 2020 at 11:00 A.M.
Deadline for Questions: ..................................................................................... March 3, 2020 by 5:00 P.M.
Final Addendum Posting: ................................................................................. March 10, 2020 by 5:00 P.M.
Proposals Due: ........................................................................................ March 17, 2020 by 2:30 P.M.
Evaluation Period: ……………………………………………………………………….………………………. March 23 – 27, 2020
Evaluation Committee Meeting ........................................................................................ To Be Determined
Shortlisted Firms Presentations/Discussions in person (Required) ................................. To Be Determined
City Council Meeting for Approval of Recommendation of Award ................................... To Be Determined

Proposals must be delivered in a sealed envelope/package and delivered to:
           City of Port Orange City Clerk’s Office
           Attn: David Van Valkenburgh, Purchasing Agent
           1000 City Center Circle
           Port Orange, FL, 32129
Sealed Proposals must be delivered no later than the date and time listed in the Timeline above. All times
referenced are local time.

Proposals shall be sealed, and Vendors must indicate on the outside of their proposal the following:

a)         Request for Proposal (RFP) Number and Title
b)         Date of Opening
c)         Name of Vendor
d)         Address of Vendor

Due to the timing of mail service, the City cautions Vendors to assure actual delivery of proposals to the City
prior to the deadline set for receiving proposals. Carrier and hand deliveries of proposals will be accepted in
the City Clerk’s Office, Port Orange City Hall, 1000 City Center Circle, Port Orange, Florida until the date and
time referenced in the Timeline above or as amended by addendum issued by the City. Proposals received after
the established deadline shall not be considered.

Offers by telephone, email or telegram shall not be accepted. Also, Vendors are instructed NOT to fax their
proposal package. Faxed proposals shall be rejected as non‐responsive regardless of where or when the fax
is received.

All proposals will be opened publicly, and the names of all Vendors shall be read aloud. All conferences and
meetings regarding this RFP are recorded electronically (audio only). The City of Port Orange reserves the right
to reject any or all proposals or parts of proposals, if it is in the best interest of the City.


                                                   RFP #20-02 Utility Billing Software                                                       Page 7 of 78
NON-MANDATORY PRE-PROPOSAL CONFERENCE:

There will be a Non-Mandatory Pre-Proposal Bid Conference for the project at 11:00 A.M. (local time)
on February 25, 2020 at City Hall, Council Chambers (1st floor), 1000 City Center Circle, Port Orange, Florida
32129. All attendees to the Pre-Proposal Conference must sign in. The representative of each Bidder
shall be an authorized employee of the Bidder and shall sign in accordingly. Bidders are encouraged to
attend the Non-Mandatory Pre-Proposal Conference and are urged to obtain Bid documents and
familiarize themselves with the documents prior to the Pre-Proposal meeting. All prospective Vendors are
strongly encouraged to attend because the Pre-Proposal Conference will offer potential Vendors the
opportunity to ask questions and discuss the project directly with staff.

QUESTIONS REGARDING THIS RFP:

All questions shall reference “Questions on RFP #20-02 UTILITY BILLING SOFTWARE” in the subject line. All
questions concerning this RFP shall be submitted in writing no later than the date and time referenced in the
Timeline above to:
        David Van Valkenburgh
        Purchasing Agent
        1000 City Center Circle
        Port Orange, FL, 32129
        dvanvalkenburgh@port-orange.org or
        purchdiv@port-orange.org

ADDENDA REGARDING THE REQUEST FOR PROPOSALS:

The City will issue responses to inquiries and any other corrections or amendments it deems necessary in
written addenda issued prior to the Proposal Due Date. Vendors should not rely on any representations,
statements or explanations other than those made in this RFP or in any addendum to this RFP. Where there
appears to be a conflict between the RFP and any addenda issued, the last addendum issued will prevail.
It is the Vendor's responsibility to be sure all correct number of addenda was received. The Vendor should
verify with the designated contact persons prior to submitting a proposal that all addenda have been received.
Vendors should acknowledge the correct number of addenda received as part of their proposals. It is the
responsibility of the Vendor to ensure all addenda have been received prior to submitting a proposal.

Written responses, in the form of an addendum, will be provided via the City website www.port-
orange.org/bids.aspx and Demand Star websites. www.demandstar.com.

The City of Port Orange reserves the right to consider the omission of an acknowledgment of addendum as
cause for rejection of the RFP submittal.

This provision exists solely for the convenience and administrative efficiency of the City of Port Orange. No
Vendor or other third party gains any rights by virtue of this provision or the application thereof, nor shall any
Vendor or third party have any standing to sue or cause of action arising therefrom.




                                      RFP #20-02 Utility Billing Software                                Page 8 of 78
CLARIFICATIONS:

It is the Vendor’s responsibility to become familiar with and fully informed regarding the terms, conditions, and
specifications of this RFP. Lack of understanding and/or misinterpretation of any portions of this RFP shall not
be cause for withdrawal of your proposal after opening or for subsequent protest of award. Vendors must
contact the Purchasing Representative, at the email provided, should clarification be required.
Modification or alteration of the documents contained in the solicitation or contract shall only be valid if
mutually agreed to in writing by the parties.

MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS:

Proposers/Vendors must be commercial entity licensed to do business in the State of Florida or appropriate
qualified commercial entity licensed in the area specified in the scope of work and to perform the services
identified herein. Submit Sunbiz report with your company registered as “Active”.

Proposers/Vendors must be properly registered and licensed to engage in the scope of work pertaining to
this RFP, by all applicable state and local agencies.

Vendors must provide a minimum of three (3) verifiable references from similar scopes of work as identified in
this RFP following the requirements in Section 7. Failure to provide references that verify required experience
will cause the Vendor to be deemed non-responsive. The City of Port Orange is not to be used as a reference.

NO LOBBYING:

All Vendors are hereby placed on notice that the City of Port Orange Council, City Employees/Staff, nor
Members of the Evaluation Committee (with the exception of the City of Port Orange Purchasing Division
personnel designated to receive requests for interpretations or corrections) are not to be lobbied, directly or
indirectly either individually or collectively, regarding this RFP. During the entire procurement process, all
Vendors and their subcontractors, sub‐consultants, or agents are hereby placed on notice that they are not to
contact any persons listed above for such purposes as holding meetings of introduction, dinners, etc., if they
intend to submit or have submitted proposals for this project. Any Vendor contacting individuals mentioned
herein in violation of this warning may automatically be disqualified from further consideration for this RFP.

PRICING SHEETS:

Pricing sheets are to be completed as directed and without modification and returned as part of the RFP
submittal prior to the RFP deadline for submission. Failure to fill out the price sheets as directed and without
modification may negatively affect the evaluation of your proposal.

EXCEPTIONS TO SPECIFICATIONS:

If taking exception to any portion of the RFP specifications, the Vendor must indicate those exceptions as stated
on the Vendor’s Acknowledgement Form.

PROPOSAL SUBMISSION AND WITHDRAWAL:

Unless otherwise specified, Vendor shall use the forms supplied by the Purchasing Division. Proposals, once
opened, become the property of the City, cannot be withdrawn, and will not be returned to the Vendors. Upon
opening, Proposals become subject to public disclosure in accordance with Chapter 119, Florida Statutes.


                                     RFP #20-02 Utility Billing Software                                Page 9 of 78
CORRECTION OF PROPOSALS:

Correction of inadvertently erroneous proposals shall be permitted up to the time of RFP opening. Vendors
shall not be allowed to modify their proposals after the opening time and date.

WITHDRAWAL OF PROPOSALS:

NO proposal shall be withdrawn for a period of ninety (90) days subsequent to the proposal opening without
the consent of the City of Port Orange, Florida. Negligence on the part of the Vendor in preparing the proposal
confers no right of withdrawal or modification after the proposal has been opened, at the appointed time and
place by the City of Port Orange. Any such withdrawn proposal shall not be resubmitted.

OPENING OF PROPOSALS:

Proposals will be received until the date and time stated in this RFP and will be publicly opened and read at the
place, time and date stated. No responsibility will attach the Purchasing Department for the premature
opening of a proposal not properly addressed and identified.

REJECTION OF PROPOSALS:

The City reserves the right to reject any and/or all proposals when such rejection is in the best interest of the
City.

PROPOSALS MAY BE REJECTED AND/OR VENDOR(S) DISQUALIFIED FOR THE FOLLOWING REASONS:

(a)     Failure to update the information on file including address, product, service or business descriptions.
(b)     Failure to perform according to contract provisions.
(c)     Conviction in a court of law of any criminal offense in connection with the conduct of business.
(d)     Evidence of a violation of any federal or state antitrust law based on the submission of bids or
        proposals, or the awarding of contracts.
(e)     Evidence that the vendor has attempted to give a City of Port Orange employee a gratuity of any kind
        for the purpose of influencing a recommendation or decision in connection with any part of the City of
        Port Orange purchasing activity.
(f)     Other reasons deemed appropriate by the City.
OWNERSHIP OF DOCUMENTS:

All documents resulting from this project will become the sole property of the City of Port Orange. The Vendor
must meet all requirements for retaining public records and transfer, at no cost, to the City all public records
in the possession of the Vendor upon termination of this Agreement and destroy any duplicate public records
that are exempt or confidential and exempt from public records disclosure requirements. All records stored
electronically must be provided to the City in a format that is compatible with the information technology
systems of the City.

 AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT (ADA):
If you need special services provided for under the Americans with Disabilities Act, contact the ADA Coordinator
in our Human Resources office at 386‐506-5560 at least 48 hours before the scheduled event.




                                    RFP #20-02 Utility Billing Software                                Page 10 of 78
                                       SECTION 3 – SCOPE OF SERVICES
Introduction
The City of Port Orange Finance Department, Customer Service Division is requesting sealed proposals from
interested and qualified vendors of utility billing software. The required functions of Utility Billing Software
are dictated by the City of Port Orange Ordinance and are incorporated in Appendix A – Functional
Requirements. The required and desired capabilities are all listed in Appendix A and each should be addressed
in the proposal. The City is also desiring expanded customer service capabilities and staff productivity through
utilization of the state-of-the-art technology.

City of Port Orange Overview
The City of Port Orange’s currently serves over 28,000 utility customers. The City of Port Orange is a regional
provider of water and wastewater treatment services. As such, the utility billing system needs to be
dynamic enough to adjust to these growth patterns.

The utility billing system currently bills for Water, Wastewater (Sewer), Solid Waste (Garbage), Storm Sewer
and Reclaimed/Sprinkler water. In addition, there are separate categories including Residential &
Commercial Single, inside/outside city limits Garbage Utility and Sump Pump, Sanitary Sewer Commercial
Industrial Surcharge (BOD/TSS) and SE Cass Rural Sewer accounts, included with the Sewer Utility. The City
of Port Orange provides bulk water and sewer services for the City of Daytona Beach Shores, and Ponce
Inlet.

The City of Port Orange Finance Department and Utilities Division is responsible for the all monthly utility
billing functions including, billing preparation and payment processing. Meter reading, installation, and
replacement, activates are part of Public Utilities Division of the Department of Public Works and Utilities.

The monthly utility billing function has a total of 14 customer service representatives. The department bills
over 28,000 accounts on a monthly basis. The City uses four billing cycles divided by districts on separate
cycles. Meters are read using a combination of radio-transmitted reads and touch pad reads. Each cycle is
broken into approximately 50 routes with between 50 and 550 reads in each route. All new accounts are set
up with radio- transmitted units. There remain 20,000 touch pad reads each month.

Meters are read by Sensus Logic Version 34 and are reviewed for high consumption, low consumption and
stopped meter as well as other analytics. Billing is calculated from a combination of usage fixed charge and
imported data. A third- party vendor process and prints utility bills through a file transmission. Utility
bills can be sent to customers either electronically or in print format.

Utility account payments are made in a variety of methods. Customers can choose to use, online web,
direct debt (ACH), bill payment providers, and in-person payments (using cash, check, or credit cards).
The current monthly utility billing system is an IBM product. The Software in Naviline, a product of Central
Square Technologies – https://www.centralsquare.com/ The City has utilized an in-house programmer to
maintain the system. The City uses Sensus meters and Sensus Software Logic Version 34 software to read
the meters for the monthly consumption. The City also uses Aquahawk to monitor the water usage at the
location to determine unusual consumption, and notifies the customer by telephone, text, or email of the
findings based on thresholds set by the city or the customer. The City’s financial software is Workday
https://www.workday.com/en-us/homepage.html

                                    RFP #20-02 Utility Billing Software                                 Page 11 of 78
Delivery Requirements
Responses to this RFP shall be submitted in a sealed package addressed as noted below and shall clearly
identify the vendor making the submission. The package shall be marked “RFP# 20-02 Utility Billing
Software”. Each vendor must provide five paper copies of the submission and at least one electronic
submission in PDF format. Vendors are liable for all costs incurred in preparing and submitting a proposal.

Please review the RFP fully, complete all responses and submit the package no later than dates should in the
RFP schedule. Vendors are solely responsible for ensuring their responses are received timely. Late responses
will not be accepted. Fax and email are not considered valid responses.

Mail or hand deliver to:

City of Port Orange Clerk’s Office

Attn: David Van Valkenburgh, Purchasing Agent
Finance Department
1000 City Center Circle, Port Orange,
Florida, 32129
The City of Port Orange reserves the right to cancel this RFP at any time for any reason without liability to
any proponent or to waive any technicalities or irregularities deemed in the best interest of the City of Port
Orange. The City of Port Orange reserves the right to reject any and all RFPs.


Scope of Services

The City of Port Orange desires a utility billing software that will meet the core functions as defined in the
Requirements Section and allow the City to grow into future needs. The software will integrate all aspects of
the utility services, including maintaining customer accounts, billing and collection including liens and
interface to meter reading systems, service order processing, payment interfaces customer web access and
interface with the city’s financial system (Workday). In addition, the City of Port Orange wishes to
implement improvements to the system where customer interactions are improved, and staff time is used
in the most efficient manner.
It is expected that the vendor be responsible for leading the implementation of new software and data
conversion of existing software and provide sufficient training for staff to be proficient using the software.
The City of Port Orange will enter into a professional services agreement with the vendor that best meets
the needs of the City of Port Orange and provides the best value incorporating implementation, data
conversion, training, and support.




                                     RFP #20-02 Utility Billing Software                               Page 12 of 78
Required Functionality

The requirements identified in Appendix A: System Functional Requirements are organized into nine
categories. The responses should address the following:

        1. General Functionality
            This includes general software and support requirements.

        2. Customer account and location management
            This includes the creation, maintenance and use of customer accounts


        3. Rates and Fees Management
            This includes the maintenance and application of all utility rates, penalties, miscellaneous
            charges and fees

        4. Meter Reading and Inventory Management
            This includes meter inventory, reading and consumption requirements

        5. Billing Management
            This includes the preparation, calculation, printing and distribution of bills

        6. Financial Management
            This includes payments, trial balance, adjustments, refunds, deposit and accounting

        7. Delinquency Management
            This includes penalties and interest, payment plans, terminations, collections and liens

        8. Service Order Management
            This includes creating, completing and managing service orders

        9. Reporting
            This includes standard and user created reports to query data


Hardware and Software Requirements

The City is only interested in hosted solutions. Proposal should identify if the solution is hosted in the public
cloud, such as Amazon AWS, or in privately owned datacenters.
The proposal shall include the ability of the software to integrate with AquaHawk and Sensus Logic
Version 34 and the submission needs to clearly define all computer and software requirements for their
utility billing system.
The City of Port Orange Information Technology system requirements are listed in Appendix B.




                                    RFP #20-02 Utility Billing Software                                 Page 13 of 78
 Proposal Submission Format Requirements
1. Executive Summary – Provide a concise overview describing the proposed approach to completing the
   work
2. Description of Organization and Qualifications – Provide a description of the major business functions,
   history and structure of the organization. Include a profile of the office location, staff and services that
   will be assigned to the City of Port Orange. Specify the number of years the vendor has been in the public
   sector software business. Provide a brief statement of the company’s background demonstrating
   longevity and financial stability. Describe internal performance metrics used to quantify key customer
   support responsiveness such as issues resolved on the first call or average time to reach issue resolution.
   Provide the following background information on the proposed utility billing software: original
   development, date of first release and date of most recent release.
3. Experience on Similar Projects – Provide summaries or brief descriptions of a minimum of three projects
     performed which are most related to the requirement s and size of this project. Limit descriptions to
     those most relevant to this project and most representative of the vendors capabilities. References must
     be for goods and services provided within the last five years. Include the name of the client and the
     contact person, date of installation, software installed, any installation issues and custom features or
     extensive report capabilities.
4.   Detailed Description of Proposed Solution – Describe how the vendor will meet all of the functionality
     requirements listed in Appendix A: System Functional Requirements. Indicate for each of the
     requirements whether the software is fully compliant, requires a modification or is not available. Provide
     a timeline with proposed dates beginning with contract execution and ending with full implementation.
5.   Future Technology – Vendor will describe what “state of the art” technologies or best- of-class features
     their software possesses to include end-user adaptations.
6.   Software and Hardware Platform – The system must be a hosted solution City of Port Orange Information
     Technology system requirements are listed in Appendix B.
7.   Data Conversion – Describe how the vendor will convert the current Utility Billing data into the new
     Utility Billing software. Conversion shall include all historical consumption and financial data currently in
     the existing Utility Billing database.
8. Implementation and Training – This proposal shall include a detailed schedule, identification of project
     manager, team members and key personnel with clear description of their history and qualifications.
     Provide an installation plan as part of the proposal. This plan shall be detailed enough that the City of
     Port Orange shall know every step of the installation process. Each task shall be broken out and
     described in detail.
     Describe the approach and resources needed to implement the proposed software. Provide a description
     of the user training approach that will properly prepare staff, supervisors, and other key personnel for
     the day-to-day use of the new utility billing software. Provide a description of the training approach that
     will properly prepare the City of Port Orange Information Technology representatives for the
     administration management and planned and unplanned maintenance of the new software.
9. System Testing and Acceptance – The City of Port Orange will not accept the software until it has
     validated that the vendor has met all requirements stated in the RFP. The vendor shall provide all labor
     and supervision for the installation, testing, and final implementation. The City of Port Orange, working
     with the vendor, shall develop acceptance procedures to ensure the software in installed property and

                                     RFP #20-02 Utility Billing Software                                 Page 14 of 78
  accepted. All software provided will be tested to confirm that it complies with all requirements of the
  RFP. All software is to be free from defects in design, material, and workmanship, is capable of sustained
  performance in the operating environment. All software shall pass the test described below and have the
  City declare that the Objectives of the test have been met
           • Free from operational defects
           • Compliant with all specifications and requirements
           • Delivered and accounted for, including all media, documentation, training and support items.
10. Warranty and post implementation support – The vendor must warranty timely response and
    remediation of technical problems. In accordance with requirements identified in the Information
    Technology Division specifications. If there is a system failure or other problems, the City of Port
    Orange needs to be assured that the vendor shall respond immediately to correct problems so that
    service is not disrupted. Describe all support resources available. The vendor should provide support
    that is capable of addressing any software related problems during regular business hours. Vendor
    must also supply a copy of the maintenance agreement that is proposed as well as a description of
    the software maintenance services, terms and conditions.
11. Annual Maintenance and Upgrades – Vendor shall provide the annual maintenance fees associated
    with the new utility billing software. Annual maintenance and upgrade costs need to specify hosted
    systems. It is expected that upgrades shall be available to allow City of Port Orange to take advantage
    of improvements in the software capabilities. The vendor shall provide regular upgrades to the software
    from the date of implementation. Proposal will describe the upgrade process.
12. Pricing – Provide detailed pricing of all costs to fully implement the successful operation of the proposed
    utility billing system. Include cost of software license or subscription fees, modification,
    implementation, training, add on third-party software, annual maintenance, travel, data conversion and
    any other anticipated costs. Please use the pricing schedule in Appendix C.


Proposed Evaluation and Selection

The City of Port Orange will review submitted proposals and determine those that are most qualified. The
City will select a vendor who, in its sole judgement, best suits the current and future needs of the City of
Port Orange. The evaluation criteria, which are neither weighted nor prioritized, include but are not limited
to the following:

•   Understanding of the work required by the City of Port Orange
•   Quality, clarity and responsiveness of the proposal
•   Demonstrated competence and professional qualifications necessary for successfully performing the
    work required by the City of Port Orange.
•   Recent experience in successfully performing similar services in water and sewer utility agencies in the
    general geographic area.
•   Technological achievements showing forward thinking, future enhancements planned for the system
•   Proposed approach in completing the work and ability to implement the new system in a timely manner
•   Background and related experience of the specific individuals to be assigned to the project
•   Fee structure and cost effectiveness of the proposal
•   References

                                   RFP #20-02 Utility Billing Software                                Page 15 of 78
Depending on the number of responses, the City of Port Orange may short list two or more vendors for
further evaluation. The short list will be selected using criteria identified above. Additional discovery may
be performed to assist in selecting the short list vendors. The short list vendors will be contacted regarding
their status as a short-listed vendor. The City of Port Orange reserves the right to award the contract or
forego awarding the contract without notice.
If a short list of vendors is developed, the City will further evaluate the short-listed vendor’s solutions by
utilizing scripted scenarios that will demonstrate the ability to meet the requirements in the RFP. Each short-
listed vendor will be provided the scripted scenarios that they will use to prepare for an on-site
demonstration. The short-listed vendors will be further evaluated based on the results of reference checks,
additional discovery and at the option of the City of Port Orange, organized site visits at vendor’s customer
sites. The selected Customer site should be using the same major version of the software being proposed for
the City of Port Orange, similar scope and complexity and geographically close to Port Orange, if possible.
Specific dates and times for each short-listed vendor will be determined following the actual selection of
short-listed vendors. It is expected that the proposed Project Manager take part in the on-site demonstration
session. As noted above, the contract award will not be based solely on price, but on a combination of factors
as determined to be in the best interest of the City of Port Orange. After evaluating the proposals and
discussing them further with the finalists or the tentatively selected vendor the City of Port Orange reserves
the right to further negotiate the proposed work and or method and amount of compensation.


                              [Remainder of this page left intentionally blank]




                                   RFP #20-02 Utility Billing Software                                Page 16 of 78
Appendix A: System Functional Requirements

     1. General Functionality
        a. Compatibility with existing IT infrastructure is preferred
        b. Include user defined fields with parameters defined by the user
        c. Use efficiencies to expedite processes such as setting up new accounts, meter changes,
              creating service orders, delinquencies and penalties and billing
         d.   Provide various levels of security. Access should allow each user group to be granted full
              access, read-only access, or specified by user, or application. Allow for administration of user
              access and password administration.
         e.   Provide system administration, including the ability to change or update field values within
              the system
         f.   Provide technical support for software between 8:00 and 5:00 Eastern time.
         g.   Interface with, existing financial software (WorkDay), meter reading equipment,
              (Sensus Logic 34), remittance processing (third-party vendor TBD), Aquahawk
              software, Esri ArcGIS Enterprise mapping, and web application.
         h.   Identify if product is address based or parcel based
         i.   Product should link address and parcel including stacked parcels
         j.   Vendor should describe how PCI-DSS compliance is maintained. Vendor should identify
              customer data that should be protected and provide a PCI Certificate of Compliance.

     2. Customer Account and Location Management
        a. Support an unlimited number of accounts
        b. Product should track customer classification and type of services provided
        c. Ability to view all customer account activity in one location, including, but not limited to read
              history, billing history, payment history, notes, etc.

         d. Ability to make changes to customer account from customer account information
              screen
         e. Ability to define, add, change and delete an unlimited number of account types
         f. Ability to query an account based on various search criteria such as customer name, account
              number, parcel number, service address.
         g.   Provide summary and detail level inquiry of customer accounts, consumption,
              amount paid per year
        h.    Provide user defined fields to be maintained for each record
        i.    Ability for unlimited notes on accounts with ability to assign alert flags where needed
        j.    Ability to track frozen meter accounts
        k.    Ability to provide an audit trail for changes to an account
        l.    Support unlimited transaction and consumption history
        m.    Accommodate new customers at an existing service address through a transfer
              function
        n.    Ability to track property owner as well as tenant

                                 RFP #20-02 Utility Billing Software                                 Page 17 of 78
        o. Ability to transfer customer balances and other related information to a new account when
             a customer transfers to a new service address
        p.   Provide ability to attach scanned documents to a customer record
        q.   Provide ability to mark an account as an “internal” account
        r.   Provide a CASS certification process(address validation) to insure and maintain accurate
             postal information
        s.   Ability to track information through the system by customer. Ability to view all accounts a
             customer has had and current status of accounts
        t.   Ability to track an unlimited number of user-defined events on an account (i.e. late
             notices, shut off, sent to collections)
        u.   Ability to display account information via web application
        v.   Ability to track information through the system by contract or property. Ability to see all
             accounts at a given property and be able to view all accounts associated with a customer
        w.   Single sign on for customers. Single sign on to a centralized user account, which is used for
             multiple public facing applications. System should integrate with this single sign on portal.
             Portal will authenticate users and redirect them to the client application containing user date
             in the URL

3. Rates and Fees Management
      a. Ability to define add, change, and delete an unlimited number of rate code types and
             amounts and must provide audit trail of all changes to rates and codes.
        b.   Ability to define an effective date for rate tables and prorate charges based on the effective
             date
        c.   Ability to define service rates that are consumption based ( water, sewer, reclaimed and
             sprinkler), fixed, percentage based, tiered, or seasonally, averaged by decimal increments
        d.   Ability to define distribution of fees to multiple general ledger accounts based on user
             defined account types, fee category, service type or reason code
        e.   Ability to prorate customer charges for service to date of occupancy
        f.   Ability to back date the date of occupancy
        g.   Ability to define, add, change and delete an unlimited number of service types
        h. Ability to stop and start dates for individual fees on an account

4. Meter Reading and Inventory
     a. Ability to define, add, change and delete an unlimited number of meter types
     b. Ability to maintain an unlimited number of meters
     c. Ability to identify a meter by type size, serial number, manufacturer, location, install
           date, and test date
        d. Provide ability to enter meter reading data through data entry screens from hand held
           devices or automated meter reading system
        e. Service consumption automatically calculated upon entry of meter reading with ability to
           edit readings
        f. Allow concurrent meter reading data entry of one route while processing billing for
           another

                                RFP #20-02 Utility Billing Software                                Page 18 of 78
        g. Ability to maintain a list of frozen water accounts and send notice to affected property
              owners.
        h.    Ability to list overtime or turn off fees separately on invoice
        i.    Maintain meter readings and dates independent of customer or account changes
        j.    Provide ability to enter a meter change without interruption of the billing cycle and final
              billing
        k.    Generate work orders based on meter reading exception messages and actions
              entered along with meter reading
        l.    Ability to describe the location of the meter at the service location along with GIS coordinate
              and picture
        m.    Ability to view a history of all meters that have been installed at a service location
        n.    Ability to record unlimited notes for a meter
        o.    Ability to define meter read types
        p.    Ability to estimate meter reads based on user defined history preferences
        q.    Ability to estimate reads by route or by cycle, mass estimates
        r.    Ability to identify reads that were estimated versus actual
        s.    Ability for system to automatically identify roll over readings based on meter setup
        t.    Flexible high/low feature that allows the user to set a range of parameters that produce
              consumption edit
        u.    Ability to change out meters at any time. Where meters have been changed out, ability to
              show separate individual meter readings and consumption and to show total consumption
              and billing amount on the same bill
        v.    Ability to change meter reading sequence without changing customer account
              number
        w.    Ability to graphically display consumption history for an account – includes ability to interface
              with Aquahawk reporting software
        x.    Ability to display average consumption by month and day for an account
        y.    Ability to view consumption history in numerical and graphical format via web
              application
        z.    Maintains reading instructions, prints instructions on read sheets and provides
              information in meter reading hand held equipment
        aa.   Allows user to flag individual accounts for which zero consumption is not considered to
              be an exception
        bb.    Prints meter route pages in customer number or route sequence number order
        cc.   Ability to interface with Meter Shop workorder system, and allows for utilization of iPad or
              similar field-use technology


5. Billing Management
       a. Supports single or multi cycle billing system
       b. Provides a complete or exception only billing pre-list for review prior to bill printing
       c. Allows printing of multiple cycles in one billing run
       d. Generates one utility bill covering all services and charges and itemizes charges

                                 RFP #20-02 Utility Billing Software                                 Page 19 of 78
          separately
       e. Maintains a file of comments for inclusion on utility bills, reminder notices or shut off notices
       f. Ability to send automated email or text communications to customers based on city defined
          parameters (delinquent accounts, late payment notices, readings out of bounds, etc.) –
          Ability to Interface with an IVR system for these notifications
       g. Provides user-defined free form message on bills
       h. Ability to send bills or messages to customer phones or mobile devices
       i. Capable of including, but not limited to, the following information on the bill: billing date,
          account number, service period, current meter reading, prior meter reading, consumption
          billed, itemized charges, balance forward, amount due, due date, numerical and graphical
          prior same period usage and average gallons used per day
       j. Ability to calculate Solid-Waste and Recycle fees based on garbage can size, number of
          cans, number of pickups per week, residential versus commercial, must list Solid-Waste
          and recycle separately
       k. Ability to charge add on fees (dumpsters, roll offs, large items)
       l. Generates a return stub so that cash receipts can be read with an optical character
            reader, scanning the account and amount
       m.   Provides for billing restart in the event of a billing jam
       n.   Ability to view and reprint a past bill at any time
       o.   Produces final notices
       p.   Ability to produce statements for customers with multiple utility accounts
       q.   Ability to sort bills by zip plus four and include intelligent mail barcode to take advantage
            of postage discounts
       r.   Ability to export bills to a file for third-party printing vendor (Currently InfoSend)
       s.   Ability to prorate bills for new and closed accounts
       t.   Calculates final bills during any cycle based on the internal issuance of a turn off-service
            order or closing a customer account
       u.   Supports billing adjustments such as read errors, automatically adjusts billing amount and
            history
       v.   Allows printing of a third party (dual notification) bills during bill run
       w.   Ability to not print a paper bill and email the bill to the customer or an option for both print
            and email
       X.   Ability to maintain multiple email accounts


6. Financial Management
      a. Allows positive or negative transaction adjustment with a complete audit trail
      b. System automatically generates the appropriate journal entries for “internal” accounts to
          our Financial software (Workday).
       c. System automatically prepares transaction batches in a batch format for posting to general
          ledger including billing, cash receipts, NSF’s, adjustments, etc.
       d. Provides automatic allocation of payments with ability to adjust or override the default
          distribution

                               RFP #20-02 Utility Billing Software                                 Page 20 of 78
       e. Accepts over payment or credit adjustment with amount maintained as unapplied
            credit balance or to be applied to the next service bill
       f.   Provides complete audit trail of payments processed for reconciliation prior to general
            ledger cash posting
       g.   Identify preferred treasury management processes, Web, IVR, merchant processor
       h.   Ability to import payment records from e-payment and lockbox services vendors
       i.   Ability to accept full, over, partial, and prepayments
       j.   Ability to distribute partial payments based on user defined preference (due date, service
            type, or percentage)
       k.   Provision for data entry correction of any distribution errors
       l.   Provide for auto-pay option for customers to pay from customer’s bank account or
            credit card
       m.   Ability to scan payment information directly into the system using bar code or OCR scanner
            (Creditron)
       n.   Ability to support payment arrangements for customers to schedule payments for
            outstanding balances - must show separately on bill
       o. Ability to display transaction history including bills, receipt adjustments, credits and
            refunds for an account
       p.   Ability to display details of transaction and drill down to transaction
       q.   Accepts multiple deposits per customer account
       r.   Ability to automatically apply deposits to a final bill or to an account that has been in good
            standing for a user-defined period of time
       s.   Ability to automate the credit/refund process by batch to integrate with Workday.
       t.   Ability to automatically apply deposits to the correct revenue accounts
       u.   Ability to display account transaction history via web application
       v.   Ability to pay outstanding balances or set up automatic payment from credit card or
            checking account via web application
       w.   Ability to track deposits and interest on all deposits
       x.   Provides ability to initiate bankruptcy on account package previous balance as
            uncollectable, maintain account history and provide audit train for uncollectable balance


7. Delinquency Management
      a. Ability to age accounts in 30, 60, 90, and 120-day increments
      b. Ability to automatically add late penalties and/or interest to delinquent accounts according
            to a flexible rate structure determined by the user
       c.   Automatic printing of shut-off notices and service orders through interface to meter shop
            work order system
       d.   Ability to produce delinquent bills for customers that have already received a final bill but
            continue to maintain an unpaid balance
       e.   Automated payment plans allowing customers to pay amount due over time
       f.   Ability to automatically assess a charge on an account if a shut off is processed
       g.   Allows selected account to be flagged as exempt from past due notifies if an account

                               RFP #20-02 Utility Billing Software                                Page 21 of 78
           holder has made payment arrangements
        h. Processes account for write-off, collection, and maintain history
        i. Maintain a dynamic shut-off list that can be automatically or manually updated
        j. Ability to populate third-party notification system with account holder information so
           customer can be notified prior to termination of service
        k. Lien Management – record, track, communicate, maintain. Ability to automatically
           determine which accounts should have a lien and assign lien to customer by using
           defined criteria; maintain accounts, and notification when the lien is satisfied

8. Service Order Management
      a. Ability to define, add, change, and delete an unlimited number of service order types
      b. Service order system provides automated updates to the utility billing system upon
             completion of service order
        c. A history of all service orders related to a service address should remain with the service
           address record. Service orders should provide drill down functionality for detail of actual
           service order
        d. Ability to automatically update customer, location, meter and account information
           upon completion of service order action
        e. Ability to print, email, or electronically interface/update workorder system with service
           orders based upon a user defined selection criteria or defined workflow
        f. Ability to dispatch or receive completed service orders via email, or electronically
           interface/update workorder system
        g. Ability to track work orders and provide reports for active and completed work orders

9. Reporting
     a. Includes standard financial, operational, and service work order reports and audit trails
     b. Provide a report library list – provide a list and report format or a link where reports can be
             viewed
        c.   Includes end-user reporting tool to create reports based on any field combination
             or partial field within the utility billing system
        d.   Ability to export reports to Microsoft Excel and Word, PDF, TXT and CSV
        e.   Ability to generate Ad Hoc reporting
        f.   Ability to generate a list of accounts, customers, or meters based on user defined
             selection criteria
        g.   Ability to generate analysis reports with user defined parameters with flexible
             selection criteria and grouping options
        h.   Ability to generate yearend financial reports including top ten consumption report and
             other information required by the Finance team
        i.   Manager configurable dashboard for key operational statistics
        j.   Integrated graphics allowing review of data


                          [Remainder of this page left intentionally blank]

                               RFP #20-02 Utility Billing Software                              Page 22 of 78
                                                APPENDIX B
                                                   ATTACHMENT

                                  CITY OF PORT ORANGE HOSTING QUESTIONS

                                Vendor-Hosted (Cloud Provider) Solution Questions

If a vendor-hosted option is being offered, provide a detailed response to the items listed below
regarding the hosting environment for the proposed solution.


Vendor Information:
          • Name of the product(s):
          • Name of the Vendor:
          • Contact Information:
          • Describe scheduled and unscheduled maintenance windows and recovery time objectives:
          • Describe the upgrade cycle:

Reliability and Availability:
           •   Describe your backup process. Include the frequency of backups, if the backup media is stored
               at an offsite location and how many backup copies are maintained:
           •   What redundancy features are available:
           •   Describe notification to City of Port Orange of scheduled outages:
           •   Describe notification to City of Port Orange of un-scheduled outages:
           •   Are all hosting locations within the United States? Are hosting locations distributed
               geographically? What is the physical location of each datacenter? If hosted by a third party list
               the name of the hosting party:

Performance, Capacity and Scalability:
           •   Describe the scalability of the solution to indicate how the application will scale as we add
               more users, more customers, etc.
           •   Will there be a test or sandbox environment available in addition to the production
               environment? How often is the test or sandbox environment refreshed?
           •   Describe the security and auditing and logging capabilities of the application:
           •   How does the solution provide for Single Sign-On (SSO)? Can the solution utilize the City of
               Port Orange’s Active Directory implementation? Is that through Microsoft Azure Active
               Directory?
           •   Describe how data contained in the hosting environment is secured. Capability to encrypt data
               at rest? Capability to encrypt data during transport?
           •   What methods does the system support for securely sharing data with the City of Port Orange
               systems? Describe the secured transmission capability between the datacenter and the City of
               Port Orange.
           •   What audit certifications has the data center passed (SSAE16 audit, FedRAMP, etc.)? Describe
               how the audit reports will be made available to the City of Port Orange upon request.


                                      RFP #20-02 Utility Billing Software                             Page 23 of 78
Data Management and Records Management:
          •     Describe the ability and process to return the City of Port Orange’s data upon contract
                termination?
          •     Are copies of backups of the data set available to the City of Port Orange throughout the length
                of the contract?


Hosting Services:
a. Service Level

         CONTRACTOR’s failure to make the hosting services available at least 99% of the time in any given
         month during the term and any renewal term, excluding scheduled maintenance, shall be deemed
         a service level default (“Service Level Default”) and City of Port Orange may obtain the non-
         exclusive remedies set forth below. For purposes of this Contract, “Available” means that City of
         Port Orange users are able to access all features and functions of the licensed product and services
         including, but not limited to the licensed software and licensed content.


              Service Level (Monthly)         Service Level Credit (Prorated Fees – Monthly)
                    Above 99%                                                  0
                   98.99 – 97%                                           10%
                   96.99 – 95%                                           20%
                   94.99 – 93%                                           35%
                    Below 93%                                            50%

         In the event CITY OF PORT ORANGE is eligible for a 50% Service Level Credit under this section
         during any given month of the term, or is eligible for a Service Level Credit greater than 10% in any
         two (2) months, during any rolling twelve (12) month period, CITY OF PORT ORANGE may
         terminate this Contract without penalty upon written notice to CONTRACTOR.

         Credits shall be applied against the next invoice. In the event a Service Level Default occurs after a
         party has given notice of termination, or CITY OF PORT ORANGE has made final payment to
         CONTRACTOR for the software support services and no further invoices shall issue as a result,
         CONTRACTOR shall refund to CITY OF PORT ORANGE the amount of the appropriate Service Level
         Credit due for the period of default.
         Once each calendar month during the term of this Contract, CONTRACTOR shall provide CITY OF
         PORT ORANGE with a written report comparing the actual performance of licensed product and
         services with the Service Level Requirement. Such report shall also contain such other information
         with respect to the performance of the licensed product and services as mutually agreed upon by
         the parties from time to time, and in conformity with reporting CONTRACTOR provides to its other
         customers utilizing the licensed product and services.




                                   RFP #20-02 Utility Billing Software                                Page 24 of 78
b. Scheduled Maintenance and Notifications

         1. Standard Maintenance Windows
               CONTRACTOR will notify CITY OF PORT ORANGE of its’ normally scheduled
               maintenance Windows.
           2. Notification of Scheduled Maintenance Downtime
               CONTRACTOR shall notify CITY OF PORT ORANGE of any schedule maintenance downtime
               which will cause the total scheduled maintenance downtime for the month to exceed 4
               hours, or will occur outside of the Standard Maintenance Windows outlined above. Except
               in cases of emergency, notification will be provided at least 24 hours prior to such
               downtime. In cases of emergency, CONTRACTOR shall use its best efforts to notify CITY OF
               PORT ORANGE of a planned downtime as soon as practicable.

 c. Hosting Service Exit Plan

      CONTRACTOR and CITY OF PORT ORANGE shall develop an Exit Plan (“Exit Plan”) detailing each
      party’s respective tasks in connection with the orderly transfer of City of Port Orange’s data back to
      CITY OF PORT ORANGE upon termination of this Contract.
      CONTRACTOR agrees that there shall be no additional fees to execute the Exit Plan. CITY OF PORT
      ORANGE agrees to take delivery of transferred CITY OF PORT ORANGE data no later than one hundred
      and twenty (120) calendar days following termination of this Contract.
      The Exit Plan must include:

             1. The format and delivery method mutually agreed upon by CONTRACTOR and CITY OF
                PORT ORANGE to transfer CITY OF PORT ORANGE data securely
             2. The deletion criteria of CITY OF PORT ORANGE data from CONTRACTOR’s location as
                determined by the City of Port Orange.

d. Security & Compliance

   Describe the mechanisms, policies and procedures used to safeguard data managed, transported and
   stored by the proposed system or application. Be sure to cite your use or non-use of intrusion detection,
   anti-virus, firewalls, vulnerability scanning, penetration testing, encryption (include description of
   protocols/algorithms), authentication and authorization protections and policies, including those
   involving passwords, removal of unnecessary network services, limiting of administrative access, code
   review, logging, employee training and other relevant safeguards.

   Describe how data is managed and safeguarded in client-side components of the proposed solution
   (mobile or desktop application, browser, offline storage, cache, etc.) Include how data is persisted,
   secured and deprecated and the controls used (encryption, authentication, etc.).

   Describe all controls in place for the proposed system or application that are designed to prevent
   potential data breaches. Your response should include detailed information regarding: (Please provide
   Non-Disclosure if required)

   Prevention of accidental disclosure (screen lockouts, role-based access, storage encryption, policies,
   training, etc.)

                                  RFP #20-02 Utility Billing Software                               Page 25 of 78
Prevention of malicious use (firewalls, intrusion detection, behavioral/content monitoring, malware
detection, physical and peripheral isolation, authentication)

Analysis and prevention of system vulnerabilities (penetration testing, industry alert response, system
hardening procedures, validation/testing for third party components, etc.)

Describe controls and processes in place to respond to a breach of the proposed system or application.
Your response should include detailed information regarding:

Incident management (procedures, documentation, policies)

Investigation and forensics (isolation, logging analysis, system recovery, procedures)

Incident reporting (notifications, disclosures, policies, documentation, etc.) Validation and testing Data
recovery

Do you (or an experienced third-party partner) perform external penetration tests at least quarterly, and
internal network security audits at least annually? Are these audits structured per the International
Organization for Standardization (ISO) 17799 (transitioning to ISO 27001) standard, and are audit
procedures in compliance with Statement on Auditing Standards No. 70, Service Organizations (SAS 70
Type II)?

Describe controls used to address community concerns regarding privacy practices. Your responses
should refer where applicable to privacy statements, opt-in or opt-out consents, compliance with
applicable privacy rules, and other relevant safeguards.

Identify any subcontracted parties or partner involved in handling, transporting and stored data for the
proposed system or application. Your response should include contact information and relevant web
addresses for each.

Describe controls in place to manage the access, usage and protection of data by subcontractors and
partners. Your responses should state any relevant relationships that may induce additional risk to the
safe storage of sensitive data (such as outsourcing of key services, use of sub-contractors or cloud
services for hosting, etc.) and refer, where applicable, to sanctions policy and practice, background
checks, role-based access to information, oversight of data authorization by supervisor, terminating
access to data for terminated employees and employees changing job functions, prohibition on sharing
passwords, and other relevant safeguards.

For credit-card based and other e-commerce transactions executed through your solution, what
measures are in place to assure transaction security? What third-party partners do you rely on for
execution of such transactions? Describe the level of PCI Compliance the application meets as well as
your process for ensuring PCI compliance is continuously met.

Do you provide protection (or receive protection from a third party) for denial-of- service attacks
against your hosted solutions?

If you have a multi-tenant architecture that extends to the database level, can you provide a
documented set of controls for ensuring the separation of data and the security of information
between different customers’ SaaS instances?


                               RFP #20-02 Utility Billing Software                                Page 26 of 78
How many staff do you have dedicated to application and infrastructure security? How many average
years’ experience do these personnel have and what security certifications do they possess?

Can you provide documented identity management and help-desk procedures for authenticating callers
and resetting access controls, as well as establishing and deleting accounts when help-desk service is
provided?




                        [Remainder of this page left intentionally blank]




                             RFP #20-02 Utility Billing Software                            Page 27 of 78
                                                           APPENDIX C
                                                  Pricing/Cost Proposal
•     The City of Port Orange requests pricing be shown using Hosted solutions.
•     Pricing should be shown over a 5 year period
•     Example spreadsheet is attached
                                                                                Cumulative Costs
                                                          Year 1             Year 2          Year 3         Year 4         Year 5
    SaaS                                                   $12                $12             $12            $12            $12

                                                                                       Software-as-a-Service (SaaS)
                                                          Year 1             Year 2          Year 3         Year 4         Year 5
           Number of users                                  1                  0               0              0               0
           Subscription fee per user per month              $1                $0               $0             $0             $0
                         Annual Subscription Costs:        $12                $0               $0             $0             $0            $12

      Hardware/Infrastructure Costs                                                                                                       Totals           %
           Servers                                         $0                 $0               $0             $0             $0             $0             0.0%
           Peripherals                                     $0                 $0               $0             $0             $0             $0             0.0%
           Network                                         $0                 $0               $0             $0             $0             $0             0.0%
           Other                                           $0                 $0               $0             $0             $0             $0             0.0%
           …                                                                                                                                $0
           Total Hardware/Infrastructure Costs             $0                 $0               $0             $0             $0            $0              0.0%
      Communication
         Local Area Network                           $         -        $         -     $          -   $          -   $          -   $          -         0.0%
         Wide Area Network                            $         -        $         -     $          -   $          -   $          -   $          -         0.0%
         Remote Access                                $         -        $         -     $          -   $          -   $          -   $          -         0.0%
         .…                                           $         -        $         -     $          -   $          -   $          -   $          -         0.0%
         Total Communication Costs                    $         -        $         -     $          -   $          -   $          -   $          -         0.0%
      Software
         License/Subscription Fees (From top entry)   $             12   $         -     $          -   $          -   $          -   $              12   100.0%
         Maintenance Fees                                                                                                             $          -
         …                                                                                                                            $          -
         Total Software Costs                         $             12   $         -     $          -   $          -   $          -   $              12   100.0%
      Implementation
          Development/customization/integration       $         -        $         -     $          -   $          -   $          -   $          -         0.0%
         Training                                     $         -        $         -     $          -   $          -   $          -   $          -         0.0%
         Consulting                                   $         -        $         -     $          -   $          -   $          -   $          -         0.0%
         Other                                        $         -        $         -     $          -   $          -   $          -   $          -         0.0%
         …                                            $         -        $         -     $          -   $          -   $          -   $          -         0.0%
         Total Implementation Costs                   $         -        $         -     $          -   $          -   $          -   $          -         0.0%
      Management/Maintenance
         Hardware & software upgrades                      $0                 $0               $0             $0             $0             $0             0.0%
         Hardware & software administration                $0                 $0               $0             $0             $0             $0             0.0%
         Other                                             $0                 $0               $0             $0             $0             $0             0.0%
         …                                                                                                                                  $0             0.0%
         Total Management Costs                            $0                 $0               $0             $0             $0             $0             0.0%
      Support
         Support staff                                     $0                 $0               $0             $0             $0             $0             0.0%
         Staff training                                    $0                 $0               $0             $0             $0             $0             0.0%
         Travel                                            $0                 $0               $0             $0             $0             $0             0.0%
         Support contracts                                 $0                 $0               $0             $0             $0             $0             0.0%
         Overhead labor                                    $0                 $0               $0             $0             $0             $0             0.0%
         …                                                                                                                                  $0             0.0%
         …                                                                                                                                  $0             0.0%
         Total Support Costs                               $0                 $0               $0             $0             $0             $0             0.0%


    Total Costs                                       $             12   $         -     $          -   $          -   $          -   $              12




                                      RFP #20-02 Utility Billing Software                                                                    Page 28 of 78
                                 SECTION 4 – STANDARD PURCHASE DEFINITIONS

1.    Addendum is a formal written document, released prior to the public opening that modifies any aspect of a
      Solicitation. Plural: Addenda
2.    Alternate Bid means multiple Bids with substantive variations from the same Bidder in response to a
      Solicitation.
3.    Amendment is a formal written agreement, signed by both parties, that modifies an existing contractual
      agreement.
4.    Appropriate, Appropriated, or Appropriation means the adoption by the City Council of the City of a budget for a
      fiscal year that includes payments to be made under the Contract during the respective fiscal year.
5.    Best Value means the highest overall value to the City based on factors that include, but are not limited to,
      price, quality, design, and workmanship.
6.    Bid is a complete, properly signed response to an Invitation to Bid, which if accepted, would bind the Bidder
      to perform the resultant Contract.
7.    Bid Guaranty (Bid Bond) guarantees that the Bidder (a) will not withdraw the Bid within the period specified
      for acceptance, and (b) will execute a Contract and furnish required bonds and any necessary insurance within
      the time specified in the Solicitation, unless a longer time is allowed by the City. The guarantee will be
      returned to the Bidder upon execution of a Contract
8.    Bidder or Proposer is a person, firm, or entity that that submits a Response to a Solicitation. Any
      Bidder/Proposer may be represented by an agent after submitting evidence demonstrating the agent’s
      authority. The agent cannot certify as to his own agency status. (See also “Vendor”)
9.    City means the City of Port Orange.
10.   Competitive Negotiation means a method for acquiring goods, services, and construction for public use in
      which discussions or negotiations may be conducted with responsible offerors who submit Responses
      through a Request for Proposals, Request for Statements of Qualifications, or Invitation to Negotiate.
11.   Competitive (Formal) Solicitation is the process of requesting and receiving two or more sealed bids,
      proposals, statements of qualifications or replies submitted by responsive vendors in accordance with the
      terms of a competitive process, regardless of the method of procurement.
12.   Competitive Range means the responsive submissions that meet the evaluation criteria and are considered to
      be reasonably susceptible of award.
13.   Construction means the process of building, repairing, improving, and alterations, conversion or extension
      of building, parks, utilities, streets or other improvements or alterations to real property.
14.   Contract is a written agreement or purchase order issued for the purchase of goods or services.
15.   Contractor means the person, firm or entity selling goods or services to the City under a Contract.
16.   Deliverables means the goods, products, materials, and/or services to be provided to the City by a Bidder.
17.   Due Date means the date and time specified for receipt of Responses to a Solicitation.
18.   End User is a person, program, agency, or other eligible user who uses a contract to purchase a commodity
      or contractual service.
19.   Evaluation Committee/Team is a temporary group of City personnel who are responsible for the evaluation
      of proposals, statements of qualifications or replies as part of a Request for Proposals (RFP), Request for
      Submission of Qualifications (RFSQ), or Invitation to Negotiate (ITN), or competitive grant process.
20.   Evaluator is a member of the evaluation committee/team.
21.   Goods are supplies, materials, or equipment.
22.   Intent to Award is a document, published on Onvia/DemandStar, that informs the public and respondents of
      the City’s decision to award a contract pursuant to a previously issued competitive solicitation.
23.   Invitation to Bid (ITB) or Bid means a formal request to prospective vendors requesting pricing for a specified
      Good or Service which has been advertised for Bid in a newspaper.
24.   Invitation to Negotiate (ITN) means a formal request to prospective vendors requesting proposed
      specifications and pricing of a product and/or service which has been advertised for replies in a newspaper.
                                       RFP #20-02 Utility Billing Software                               Page 29 of 78
25.   Issues means points, matters, or concerns to be addressed during negotiations.
26.   Lead Negotiator is the negotiator responsible for leading and facilitating the formal negotiation discussions
      and selecting other required negotiation team members. Is often the “driver of change” and seeks
      alternatives/options.
27.   Lowest Responsible Bid means the responsive Bid meeting all requirements of the specifications, terms, and
      conditions of the Invitation to Bid resulting in the lowest cost to the City in a total cost concept or based solely
      on price, taking into consideration the financial and practical ability of the Bidder to perform the Contract,
      past performance of the Bidder, and compliance with all City ordinances concerning the purchasing process.
28.   Lowest Responsible Bidder means the Bidder submitting Lowest Responsible Bid.
29.   Negotiation Team is a temporary group of City personnel who are responsible for negotiations as part of an
      Invitation to Negotiate (ITN).
30.   Negotiator is a member of the negotiation team.
31.   Non-Professional Services are services performed that are not of a professional nature such as lawn care,
      security, janitorial, etc.
32.   Offer means a complete signed Response submitted to the City in response to a Solicitation including, but
      not limited to, a Bid submitted in response to an Invitation to Bid, a Proposal submitted in response to a
      Request for Proposal, a Quote submitted in response to a Request for Quotation, a Statement of Qualifications
      and interest submitted in response to a Request for Statements of Qualifications, or a Reply submitted in
      response to an Invitation to Negotiate.
33.   DemandStar is the official online repository for all City competitive solicitations.
34.   Outlier is a bid, offer, or proposal which is determined by the Purchasing Director or Manager to be
      significantly dissimilar to or inconsistent with, competing bids or offers.
35.   Pre-Bid/Proposal/Statement/Reply Conference means a meeting conducted by the Purchasing Office, held
      in order to allow Vendors to ask questions about the proposed Contract and particularly the Contract
      specifications with the City department requesting the goods/services.
36.   Price Analysis is an evaluation of the total cost of a contract in order to determine if the price is reasonable.
37.   Procurement (Process) is a term used in the governmental sector for the combined functions of acquiring
      (purchasing) needed goods and/or services, receiving and inspection, inventory management, contract
      administration, and disposal/surplus.
38.   Professional Services means those services within the scope of the practice of architecture, professional
      engineering, landscape architecture, or registered surveying and mapping, as defined by the laws of the state,
      or those performed by any architect, professional engineer, landscape architect, or registered surveyor and
      mapper in connection with his or her professional employment or practice.
39.   Protest is a formalized process by which respondents have an opportunity to challenge a procurement
      practice or contract award.
40.   Proposal is a complete, properly signed Response to a Request for Proposal, based on performance that is
      offered rather than on that of price alone, which if accepted, would bind the Vendor to perform the resultant
      Contract.
41.   Purchase Order is an order placed by the Purchasing Division for the purchase of Goods or Services written
      on the City’s standard Purchase Order form and which, when accepted by the Bidder, becomes a contract.
      The Purchase Order is the Bidder’s authority to deliver and invoice the City for Goods or Services specified,
      and the City’s commitment to accept the Goods or Services for an agreed upon price.
42.   Request for Proposal (RFP) means a formal request to prospective vendors requesting qualifications of the
      vendor and pricing for a specified Good or Service which has been advertised for Proposal in a newspaper.
43.   Request for Statement of Qualifications (RFSQ) means a formal request to prospective vendors requesting
      statements of qualifications pursuant to Florida Statute 287.055 “Consultant’s Competitive Negotiation Act”
      which has been advertised for Statement in a newspaper.



                                      RFP #20-02 Utility Billing Software                                   Page 30 of 78
44.   Respondent means an entity that has (or will, i.e. “prospective respondents”) submitted a response to a
      competitive solicitation conducted to create a contractual relationship for the provision of commodities or
      services.
45.   Response/Submission means all materials submitted to the City by a respondent as part of a solicitation. A
      response may be called a bid, proposal, statement of qualifications, or a reply, depending on the type of
      competitive solicitation being issued.
46.   Responsible (Vendor) is a vendor who has the capability in all respects to fully perform the contract
      requirements and the integrity and reliability that will assure good faith performance.
47.   Responsive (Vendor) is a vendor that has submitted a bid, proposal, statement of qualifications, or reply that
      conforms in all material respects to the solicitation.
48.   Scope means the extent of the area or subject matter that something deals with or to which it is relevant.
49.   Scope of Work means a description of the work activities, deliverables, and/or timeline that a vendor must
      execute in terms of delivering specific commodities or in performance of contractual services.
50.   Services include all work or labor performed for the City on an independent contractor basis other than
      construction.
51.   Solicitation means a formal request, as applicable, for prospective vendors to submit responses to an
      Invitation to Bid, Request for Proposal, Request for Qualifications, Invitation to Negotiate, or a Request for
      Quotation.
52.   Solicitation Document means a document, or collection of documents, either paper or electronic, that contains
      all information required to conduct a competitive procurement project according to § 287.057, Florida Statutes.
53.   Stakeholder means an individual, who is not likely to become a vendor, who has an interest in the
      commodities/contractual services needed.
54.   Subcontractor means a person, firm or entity providing goods or services to a Vendor to be used in the
      performance of the Vendor’s obligations under the Contract.
55.   Subject Matter Expert means a person who has working or expert knowledge about a particular topic or field.
56.   Unbalanced Bid means a Bid that is based on prices which are significantly less than cost for some bid items
      and significantly more than cost for others.
57.   Vendor is a person, firm, or entity that that provides commodities or services and submits a Response to a
      Solicitation. Any Vendor may be represented by an agent after submitting evidence demonstrating the
      agent’s authority. The agent cannot certify as to his own agency status. (Also called “Bidder” or “Proposer”.)


                                    [Remainder of this page left intentionally blank]




                                     RFP #20-02 Utility Billing Software                                Page 31 of 78
                               SECTION 5 – GENERAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS


These instructions are standard for all contracts for commodities or services issued through the City of
Port Orange Purchasing Division. General Requirements apply to all advertised Solicitations; however,
these may be superseded, in whole or in part, by the SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS/INSTRUCTIONS OR
OTHER DATA CONTAINED HEREIN.

READ THIS ENTIRE DOCUMENT CAREFULLY. FOLLOW ALL INSTRUCTIONS. YOU ARE RESPONSIBLE FOR
FULFILLING ALL REQUIREMENTS AND SPECIFICATIONS. BE SURE YOU UNDERSTAND THEM.

1.     ACCEPTANCE BY CITY
       The City shall have a reasonable time (but not less than 30 days) after receipt to inspect the goods
       and services tendered by vendor. The City at its option may reject all or any portion of such goods
       or services which do not, in City’s sole discretion, comply in every respect with all terms and
       conditions of the contract. The City may elect to reject the entire goods and services tendered
       even if only a portion thereof is nonconforming. If the City elects to accept nonconforming goods
       and services, the City, in addition to its other remedies, shall be entitled to deduct a reasonable
       amount from the price thereof to compensate the City for the nonconformity. Any acceptance by
       the City, even if non-conditional, shall not be deemed a waiver or settlement of any defect in such
       goods and services. The material delivered as a result of this solicitation shall remain the property
       of the seller until a physical inspection and actual usage of the item(s) is made and thereafter
       deemed acceptable to the satisfaction of the City, in compliance with the terms and specifications
       contained herein. In the event that the item(s) supplied to the City is/are found to be defective,
       or does/do not conform to specifications, the City reserves the right to cancel the order upon
       written notice to the seller and return the item(s) to the seller at the seller's expense.

2.     ADDENDUM
       When specifications are revised, the City of Port Orange Purchasing Division will issue an
       addendum addressing the nature of the change. Vendors should acknowledge all addenda by
       circling the quantity of addenda received on the “Vendor Acknowledgment Form” and include it
       in the returned Response package. Failure to acknowledge the correct number of addenda issued
       may result in rejection of the Response. It is the responsibility of the Vendor to ensure all addenda
       have been received prior to submitting a bid. All Addenda shall be posted by the CITY on
       www.demandstar.com.

       The City shall issue responses to inquiries and any other corrections or amendments it deems
       necessary in written addenda issued prior to the Solicitation Response Due Date. Vendors should
       not rely on any representations, statements or explanations other than those made in this
       Solicitation or in any addendum to the Solicitation. Where there appears to be a conflict between
       the Solicitation and any addenda issued, the last addendum issued shall prevail.

3.     ADDITIONAL GOODS
       Products, Materials and Goods not specifically identified in this bid request may be added to any
       resultant contract upon mutual consent of the contracting parties. The City reserves the right to
       add or delete products or materials of similar nature, within the family of products of “ITB Item(s)”
       and their commodity codes, to those items requested in this bid.




                          RFP #20-02 Utility Billing Software                                  Page 32 of 78
4.   ANTI-COLLUSION STATEMENT
     By submitting this Response to a Formal Solicitation, the Vendor affirms that this Response is
     without previous understanding, agreement, or connection with any person, business, or
     corporation submitting a Response for the same materials, supplies, or equipment, and that this
     Response is in all respects fair, and without collusion or fraud. Additionally, Vendor agrees to
     abide by all conditions of this Solicitation and certifies that they are authorized to sign this
     Response for the Vendor. In submitting a Response to the City of Port Orange, the Vendor offers
     and agrees that if the Response is accepted, the Vendor shall convey, sell, assign or transfer to
     the City of Port Orange all rights, title and interest in and to all causes of action it may now or
     hereafter acquire under the Anti-trust laws of the United States and the State of Florida for price
     fixing relating to the particular commodities or services purchased or acquired by the City of Port
     Orange. At the City’s discretion, such assignment shall be made and become effective at the time
     the City tender’s final payment to the Vendor.

5.   APPLICABLE LAWS
     In connection with the furnishing of supplies or performance of work under the Contract, the
     Vendor agrees to comply with the Fair Labor Standards Act, Equal Opportunity Employment Act,
     and all other applicable federal and state laws, regulations and executive orders to the extent that
     the same may be applicable.

6.   ASSIGNMENT
     The successful Vendor shall not sell, assign, transfer or convey this contract in whole or in part,
     without the prior written consent of the City of Port Orange. Any such assignment or transfer shall
     not release Vendor from all contractual obligations.

7.   AUTHORITY TO CONDUCT BUSINESS IN FLORIDA:
     A Florida corporation or partnership is required to provide evidence with its response that the
     Vendor is authorized to transact business in Florida and is in good standing with the Florida
     Department of State. If not with its response, such evidence must be submitted to the City no
     later than five (5) business days from request of the Purchasing Manager.

     A foreign (out-of-state) corporation or partnership is required to provide evidence with its
     response that the Vendor is authorized to transact business in Florida and is in good standing with
     the Florida Department of State. If not with its response, such evidence must be submitted to the
     City no later than five (5) business days from request of the Purchasing Manager.

     A joint venture is required to provide evidence with its response that the joint venture, or at least
     one of the joint venture partners, is authorized to transact business in Florida and is in good
     standing with the Florida Department of State. If not with its response, such evidence must be
     submitted to the City no later than five (5) business days from request of the Purchasing Manager.
     However, the joint venture is required to provide evidence prior to contract execution that the
     joint venture is authorized to transact business in Florida and provide the City with a copy of the
     joint venture Agreement.

     A joint venture is also required to provide with its response a Statement of Authority indicating
     that that the individual submitting the joint venture’s proposal has the legal authority to bind the

                        RFP #20-02 Utility Billing Software                                  Page 33 of 78
      joint venture. If not with its response, such evidence must be submitted to the City no later than
      five (5) business days from request of the Purchasing Manager.

8.    AWARDS
      Results from the evaluation committee will be considered by the City of Port Orange City Council
      at the earliest possible regular meeting subsequent to the evaluation process. This RFP is issued
      in accordance with and shall be governed by the provisions of the City’s Purchasing Policy.

      The City of Port Orange City Council reserves the right to make award(s) by individual sections,
      groups, all or none, or a combination thereof, with one or more Vendors; to reject any and all
      proposals, or to waive any informality or technicality in proposals received as deemed to be in the
      best interest of the City.

      The City does not award publicly funded contracts to those who knowingly employ unauthorized
      alien workers in violation of section 274A(e) of the Immigration and Naturalization Act, 8 United
      States Code s1324a(e). Such employment deprives legal workers of job opportunities. Violation
      of section 274A(e) shall be grounds for unilateral cancellation of the contract, Contract, proposal
      or quote for purchase of services and goods by the City of Port Orange.

9.    AWARD AND EXECUTION OF CONTRACT:
      When a bid received has been determined to be satisfactory, a Contract will be awarded or
      Purchase Order Issued to the lowest responsible responsive Bidder within the time designated in
      the Contract Documents.

      The Bidder(s) to whom the award is made shall execute the Contract(s) and return it, together
      with the properly executed bonds and insurance certificates to the office of the Owner, within the
      time specified

10.   BID RETURNS
      Vendors shall return all completed Responses to the City of Port Orange at the address set forth
      in Section 2 of this document on the date and at the time specified. Late submissions will not be
      accepted and shall be returned to Vendors unopened.

11.   BID PROTEST
      Any person who is adversely affected by the City’s decision or intended decision shall file with the
      City Purchasing Manager a notice of protest in writing within 72 hours after the posting of the
      notice of decision or intended decision. With respect to a protest of the terms, conditions, and
      specifications contained in a solicitation, including any provisions governing the methods for
      ranking Bids, Proposals, Statements, or Replies, awarding contracts, reserving rights of further
      negotiation, or modifying or amending any contract, the notice of protest shall be filed in writing
      within 72 hours after the posting of the Solicitation. Saturdays, Sundays, and state holidays shall
      be excluded in the computation of the 72-hour time period established herein. The formal written
      protest shall be filed with the Purchasing Manager in writing within ten (10) days after the date
      the notice of protest is filed. The formal written protest shall state with particularity the facts and
      law upon which the protest is based. Failure to file a notice of protest or failure to file a formal
      written protest shall constitute a waiver of proceedings. Upon receipt of the formal written
      protest that has been timely filed, the City shall stop the solicitation or contract award process
      until the subject of the protest is resolved by final City action. However, the City may continue

                          RFP #20-02 Utility Billing Software                                  Page 34 of 78
      the solicitation or award process, provided the City Manager sets forth in writing particular facts
      and circumstances which require the continuance of the solicitation or contract award process
      without delay in order to avoid an immediate and serious danger to the public health, safety, or
      welfare. The City shall provide an opportunity to resolve the protest by mutual agreement
      between the parties. The policy this City has established is as follows:

      a.      As soon as possible after receipt, the Purchasing Manager shall provide written bid
              protest to City Manager, City Attorney, Department Head involved, and Supervisor
              directly involved in the acquisition.

      b.      Purchasing Manager shall schedule within seven (7) business days, excluding weekends
              and holidays, a meeting with the above-mentioned individuals or designee and protestor.
              The intent of the meeting is to provide a review and/or solution prior to going before
              Council. After reviewing all relevant information, the City Manager shall render a
              decision.

      c.      If the protestor disagrees, he may appeal to the City Council at a formal council meeting.
              After reviewing the evidence, the City Council will issue their decision. The City Council's
              decision is final; however, the protestor can appeal the decision to the Circuit Court in
              Volusia County, Florida within thirty (30) days of the City Council’s final decision.
              Decisions at all levels shall be in writing to the protestor.

12.   BID/PROPOSAL TABULATION
      Vendors who wish to receive a copy of the bid/proposal tabulation may obtain it via
      www.demandstar.com or on the City of Port Orange website, Bid Opportunities page www.port-
      orange.org/bids.aspx or by email purchdiv@port-orange.org.

13.   BONDS
      If this Solicitation requires submission of bid guarantee and performance bonds, there will be a
      separate page explaining those requirements. Responses submitted without the required bid
      bond or certified check shall be deemed non-responsive. When the Purchasing Manager deems it
      necessary, bid bonds/deposits shall be prescribed and are advertised in the public notices inviting
      bids. Normally, if a bid bond/deposit is requested, it is in the amount of five percent (5%) of the
      bid amount. Payment and Performance Bonds requested for construction projects shall be in an
      amount equal to one hundred percent (100%) of the total contract amount. Upon award, the
      successful Vendor may also be required to furnish and pay for a satisfactory contract one hundred
      percent (100%) Payment and Performance Bond which will be recorded by the City, at the
      Vendor’s sole cost and expense, with the Clerk of the Circuit Court, Volusia County, Florida, and
      to enter into a written contract with the City of Port Orange. After recording, the City will furnish
      to the contractor the recording information for the bond to evidence that the contractor has met
      the requirements of Florida law. The City will bill the cost of recording to the contractor. Payment
      and Performance Bonds shall also be recorded at the Vendor’s expense in the Office of the Clerk
      of the Circuit Court, Volusia County, Florida. All bonds no matter which kind, are advertised in
      the Solicitation which appears in the newspaper. Unsuccessful Vendors are entitled to the return
      of their surety where the Purchasing Manager has required such. A successful Vendor shall forfeit
      any surety required by the Purchasing Manager upon failure on the part of the Vendor to enter
      into a contract within the time specified after the award of bid.



                         RFP #20-02 Utility Billing Software                                  Page 35 of 78
14.   CERTIFICATE OF INSURANCE
      If required upon notice of intent to award contract resulting from this solicitation, the selected
      Vendor will be required to submit a Certificate of Insurance showing proof of adequate coverage
      for professional general liability, errors and omissions and workers’ compensation as identified
      under the insurance requirements of this solicitation and listing the City of Port Orange as a
      Certificate Holder prior to execution of the contract.

15.   CHANGE ORDERS
      No oral statement of any person shall modify or otherwise change, or affect the terms, conditions
      or specifications stated in the resulting contract. All change order requests shall be made in
      writing by the Contractor for review by the Contract Administrator for the City of Port Orange.
      No work shall be performed as set forth in the change order until the Contractor receives an
      executed Purchase Order for the requested change.

16.   CHANGE ORDER REQUEST NOTIFICATION
      The Successful Contractor is responsible for giving the City of Port Orange, prior to the Contract
      expiration date, at least forty-five (45) calendar day’s advance notice for any anticipated changes
      in price greater than $25,000.00, time and/or scope of the awarded Contract. The Contractor
      shall not continue to provide services past the Contract expiration date unless approved by a
      written Change Order Notice from the City.

17.   CLEAN UP
      Upon completion of the delivery of materials, the Contractor shall restore any/all public and
      private property which was damaged during delivery. Restoration is meant to include removal of
      any spillage or restoring damage to the edge of pavement, sidewalks, driveways, landscaped
      areas, etc. Contractor shall make repairs consistent with or better than what existed prior to
      delivery. This shall be understood to include the use of sod or seed and mulch to replace (if
      necessary) existing grass that has been damaged.

      If sod is used it shall match the sod present on the effected property. Contractor shall make all
      repairs and restorations at his expense.

18.   CONDUCT OF VENDORS
      All Vendors or individuals acting on behalf of a Vendor are hereby prohibited from lobbying or
      otherwise attempting to persuade or influence any member of the Evaluation Committee, City
      Council members, or City staff at any time during the course of the solicitation process. The
      solicitation process shall end upon issuance of the written City Manager and staff
      recommendation for selection of a Vendor. All Vendors or individuals acting on behalf of a Vendor
      are further prohibited from contacting or otherwise attempting to communicate with any
      member of the staff, Evaluation Committee or City Council members regarding the pending
      solicitation or its outcome until after the issuance of the written recommendation of the most
      qualified Vendor. Until such recommendation is issued in writing, any questions regarding the
      pending solicitation shall be submitted to the Purchasing Manager. Failure to comply with this
      procedure shall result in rejection/disqualification of said submittal without exception. Contact
      with staff, City Council members and the Evaluation Committee during a public meeting shall not
      be considered a violation of this requirement.



                         RFP #20-02 Utility Billing Software                                Page 36 of 78
19.   CONE OF SILENCE
      The Cone of Silence is designed to protect the integrity of the procurement process by shielding
      it from undue influences prior to the execution of the award.

      The Cone of Silence is defined as the period beginning with the issuance of the solicitation
      document and continues through the execution of the award document. During this time
      vendors, service providers and the like are prohibited from all communications regarding the
      solicitation with City staff, City consultants, City legal counsel, City Agents, or elected officials.
      Any vendor who initiates any discussions or attempts to influence a member or members of the
      aforementioned shall be disqualified from continued participation in the procurement process
      with regard to that particular solicitation.

      Exceptions to the Cone of Silence:

              •   Written communication directed to the Procurement Officer;
              •   All communications occurring at Pre-Proposal Conferences;
              •   Oral presentations before publicly notice committee meetings;
              •   Procurement of goods and services for Emergency situations; and
              •   Contractors already on contract with the City to perform services for the City are
                  allowed discussions necessary for the completion of an existing contract.

20.   CONFLICT OF INTEREST
      For purposes of determining any possible conflict of interest, all Vendors must disclose if any City
      of Port Orange employee is also an owner, corporate officer, or employee of Vendor’s business.
      No official or employee of the City who exercises any functions or responsibilities in the review or
      approval of the undertaking or carrying out of the Scope of Work covered by the Contract shall
      voluntarily acquire any personal interest, directly or indirectly, in the contract or proposed
      Contract.

21.   CONFLICT OF INSTRUCTIONS
      If a conflict exists between the General Terms and Conditions and instructions contained herein,
      and the Special Terms and Conditions and instructions contained herein, the Special Terms and
      Conditions shall govern.

22.   CONTRACT
      Any acquisition above the $25,000 level shall be done through one of the formal competitive
      methods except upon City Council waiver and/or shall have City Council approval. Only the
      Purchasing Manager and/or City Manager, have the authority to obligate the City by entering into
      a written contract to purchase goods and/or services up to $25,000.00. The City of Port Orange,
      Florida reserves the right to reject any and all Responses or to waive any and all non-substantial
      irregularity in Responses received, whenever such waiver or rejection is in the best interest of the
      City.

23.   CONTRACT OBLIGATION
      The City of Port Orange City Council shall approve the contract if greater than $25,000.00
      annually. The Mayor or other person authorized by the Mayor must sign the contract before it
      becomes binding on the City of Port Orange or the Vendor. Department heads are NOT authorized
      to sign contracts for the City of Port Orange. Binding agreements shall remain in effect until all
                          RFP #20-02 Utility Billing Software                                  Page 37 of 78
      products and/or services covered by this purchase have been satisfactorily delivered and
      accepted.

24.   CONTRACT RENEWALS
      Renewals may be made ONLY by written agreement between the City of Port Orange and the
      Vendor. Any price escalations are limited to those stated by the Vendor on the original Response.

25.   COOPERATIVE PURCHASING
      The City Manager may elect to purchase through or join with other governmental units in
      cooperative purchasing ventures when the best interest of the City would be served thereby,
      provided the same is in accordance with all applicable laws. In the event the City Manager should
      elect to purchase through or join with other governmental agencies in cooperative purchasing
      ventures, all purchases in excess of twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000.00) shall require council
      approval before the purchasing contracts are entered into. (Code 1981, § 8-33, Ord. 1997-22, § 5.
      5-6-1997; Ord. No. 2004-15, § 4, 7-20-2004)

26.   COPYRIGHT AND PATENT RIGHTS
      Vendor warrants that there has been no violation of copyrights or patent rights in manufacturing,
      producing and/or selling the item(s) ordered or shipped as a result of this Response, and
      successful Vendor agrees to hold the City harmless from any and all liability, loss or expense by
      any such violation.

27.   COST INCURRED BY VENDOR
      All expenses, including costs for required bonds, involved with the preparation and submission of
      Responses to the City, or any work performed in connection therewith shall be borne by the
      Vendor. No payment shall be made for any response received, nor for any other effort required
      of or made by the Vendor prior to commencement of work as defined by the contract approved
      by the City Council.

28.   DAMAGE
      Any damage to driveways, irrigation systems, sidewalks, pavement, or landscaping will be
      evaluated by the City’s representative and the Contractor. If the Contractor is found to be at fault,
      all repairs, restitution, or reimbursements to the City must be completed within one week of
      discovery.

29.   DEBARMENT HISTORY
      The City will consider a Vendor’s debarment history information in its review and determination
      of responsibility. All Vendors are required to disclose to the City all cases of debarment filed,
      pending, or resolved by the City or other public entity during the last five (5) years prior to the
      solicitation response due date, whether such actions were brought by or against the Vendor, any
      parent or subsidiary of the Vendor, or any predecessor organization. If the Vendor is a joint
      venture, the information provided should encompass the joint venture (if it is not newly-formed
      for purposes of responding to the solicitation) and each of the entities forming the joint venture.
      Although the review of a Vendor’s debarment history is an issue of responsibility, the failure to
      provide debarment history as required in the Proposal Submittal and Requirements Section may
      result in a recommendation of non-responsive by the Purchasing Manager.


                         RFP #20-02 Utility Billing Software                                  Page 38 of 78
30.   DEFAULT PROVISIONS
      In the event of default by the Vendor, the City reserves the right to procure the item(s) bid from
      other sources and hold the Vendor responsible for excess costs incurred as a result. If a contractor
      defaults on a City contract the City Council may elect to refrain from doing business with the
      Vendor for a period of 36 months from the date of default.

31.   DELIVERY OF GOODS/SERVICES
      All materials are to be delivered F.O.B.; City of Port Orange designated facility.

      Delivery dates pertaining to this invitation must be clearly stated in the bid form where required
      and include weekends and holidays. Failure to comply with this requirement may be a cause for
      disqualification of bid. Unless otherwise specified, delivery at the earliest date is required. The
      Vendor shall clearly state in the Response the time required for delivery upon receipt of contract
      or purchase order. Proposed delivery time must be specific and such phrases “as required,” “as
      soon as possible” or “prompt” may result in disqualification of the bid. Delivery time will be a
      factor for any orders placed as a result of this Response. The City reserves the right to cancel such
      order(s) or any part thereof, without obligation, if delivery is not made within the time(s) specified
      herein and hold the vendor in default.

      Upon approval of a contract, the vendor is obligated to deliver the goods to the destination
      specified in the Solicitation or the Purchase Order and bears the risk of loss until delivery. If this
      Solicitation or Purchase Order does not contain delivery instructions, Vendor shall request
      instructions in writing from the Purchasing Manager. If the delivery instructions contained in the
      Solicitation allocate delivery costs and risks in a manner contrary to this section, the provisions of
      this Competitive Solicitation shall prevail.

      When delivery is not met as provided for in the contract, the Purchasing Division reserves the
      right to make the purchase on the open market, with any cost in excess of the contract price paid
      by the Vendor, in addition to any other damages, direct or consequential, incurred by the City as
      a result thereof. In addition, failure of the Vendor to meet the contract delivery dates will be cause
      for removal of the Vendor from the City’s list of eligible Bidders/Proposers as determined by the
      Purchasing Division.

32.   DETERMINATION OF LOWEST AND BEST RESPONSIBLE BIDDER /PROPOSER
      In determining the lowest and best responsible Bidder/Proposer, in addition to price, there will
      be considered the following:

      a. The ability, capacity and skill of the Bidder/Proposer to perform the contract.
      b. Whether the Bidder/Proposer can perform the contract within the time specified, without
         delay or interference.
      c. The character, integrity, reputation, judgment, experience, and efficiency of the
         Bidder/Proposer.
      d. The quality of performance of previous contracts.
      e. The previous and existing compliance by the Bidder/Proposer with laws and ordinances
         relating to the contract.
      f. The sufficiency of the financial resources and ability of the Bidder/Proposer to perform the
         contract or provide the service.


                          RFP #20-02 Utility Billing Software                                 Page 39 of 78
      g. The quality, availability and adaptability of the supplies or contractual services to the
         particular use required.
      h. The ability of the Bidder/Proposer to provide further maintenance and service for the use of
         the subject of the contract.
      i. The number and scope of conditions attached to the bid.
      j. Such other factors as appear to the city council to be pertinent to the bid or the contract
         under all of the circumstances involved.

33.   DISCLOSURE OF CONFLICTS
      The award is subject to the provisions of Chapter 112.313, Florida Statutes. All Vendors must
      disclose with their Response the name of any officer, director, or agent who is also an employee
      of the City. Further, all Vendors must disclose the name of any employee who owns, directly or
      indirectly, an interest in the Vendor’s firm or any of its branches. The Vendor shall not
      compensate, in any manner, directly or indirectly, any officer, agent, or employee of the City for
      any act or service that he/she may do, or perform for, or on behalf of any officer, agent or
      employee of the Vendor. No officer, agent, or employee of the City shall have any interest, directly
      or indirectly, in any contract or purchase made, or authorized to be made by anyone for, or on
      behalf of the City. The Vendor shall have no interest and shall not acquire any interest that shall
      conflict in any manner or degree with the performance of the services required under the
      Solicitation.

34.   DISQUALIFICATION OF BIDDER/PROPOSER
      The Purchasing Manager shall maintain a current listing of qualified Bidders. The Purchasing
      Manager may, from time to time, remove any vendor's name from the list of qualified Bidders.
      Normally the removal of a vendor from the vendor list is done after non-response from that
      vendor for three (3) consecutive Solicitations. Such action may also arise out of breach of
      contract, default, or irregular business practice, based on the Finance Director and City Attorney's
      recommendation. Any or all Responses may be rejected if the City believes that collusion exists
      among the Bidders/Proposers. Responses in which the prices are obviously unbalanced may be
      rejected. If multiple Responses are submitted by a Bidder/Proposer and after the Responses are
      opened one of the Responses is withdrawn, the result will be that all of the Responses submitted
      by that Bidder/Proposer will be withdrawn; however, nothing herein prohibits a vendor from
      submitting multiple Responses for different products or services.

35.   EVALUATION
      Evaluation shall be used as a determinant as to which Response items or services are the most
      efficient and/or most economical for the City. It shall be based on all factors which have a bearing
      on price and performance of the items in the user environment. All Responses are subject to
      tabulation by the City of Port Orange Purchasing Division and recommendation to the governing
      body. Compliance with all Solicitation requirements, delivery and needs of the using department
      are considerations in evaluating Responses. Pricing is NOT the only criteria for making a
      recommendation. The City of Port Orange Purchasing Division reserves the right to contact any
      Bidder/Proposer, at any time, to clarify, verify or request information with regard to any
      Response.

36.   EVALUATING RFPs/RFSQs/ITNs
      The evaluation process is formally conducted by a committee appointed by the Purchasing
      Manager or requesting department as required by general law. The Purchasing Manager leads

                         RFP #20-02 Utility Billing Software                                 Page 40 of 78
      and oversees the entire process. The evaluation is based upon specific criteria outlined in the
      Solicitation. The user department shall assign a weight to each of the evaluation criteria by its
      relative importance, with the total weights equaling 100. Each committee member establishes a
      summary of total scores for all the vendors. The summary of total scores is used to rank the
      vendors. Based upon the scores/ranking of the committee members, consensually a short list is
      obtained. In this Solicitation process this short list will consist of no less than three vendors
      (unless less than three were received). This committee falls under the Florida Sunshine Law and
      therefore cannot speak with one another concerning the Solicitation unless in a public committee
      meeting. These meetings also shall be announced publicly in a designated area and meetings are
      recorded. In the case of the Solicitation, one member of the Evaluation Committee may consist
      of one (1) member from the City Council; and at least one (1) member from the user department,
      except as otherwise required by general law. The Evaluation Committee, through the Purchasing
      Division, schedules oral presentations from the firms that were short-listed. At the oral
      presentation, the short-listed firms present an over view of their company and their approach to
      the scope of work outlined. Upon conclusion of the oral presentations, with the same criteria and
      procedures used to evaluate the written Responses, the committee members then evaluate those
      three firms again to determine a second ranking. Then, by consensus a final ranking is
      determined. That final ranking is then presented to the City Council by the using department
      head requesting approval to negotiate with the individual/firm ranked as number one. A contract
      is completed pursuant to the negotiations with this individual and/or firm. If a successful contract
      cannot be obtained with the number one ranked firm, the negotiations then move to the team
      ranked as number two, never to return to the number one again.

37.   EXCEPTIONS TO SPECIFICATIONS
      For purposes of evaluation, the Vendor must indicate any exception to the specifications, terms,
      and/or conditions, no matter how minor. This includes any agreement or contract forms supplied
      by the Vendor that are required to be signed by the City. If exceptions are not stated by the
      Vendor, in his bid, it will be understood that the item(s)/services fully comply with the
      specifications, terms and/or conditions stated by the City. Exceptions are to be listed by the
      Vendor on an attachment included with the bid. The City will not determine exceptions based on
      a review of any attached sales or manufacturer's literature.

38.   E-VERIFY
      Vendors shall utilize the U.S. Department of Homeland Security’s E-Verify system to verify the
      employment eligibility of all new employees hired by the Vendor during the term of contract and
      shall expressly require any subcontractor performing services pursuant to the contract to likewise
      utilize the U.S. Department of Homeland Security’s E-Verify system to verify the employment
      eligibility of all new employees hired by the subcontractor during the term of contract.

39.   FACILITIES
      The City reserves the right to inspect the Vendor’s facilities at any time.

40.   FAILURE TO RESPOND
      If the vendor elects not to bid, please return the enclosed "Bidder Acknowledgement Form" by
      the bid due date and state the reason(s) for not bidding. Failure to respond, either by submitting
      a bid, or by submitting a "Statement of No Bid", three (3) times, shall result in the vendor’s name
      being removed from the City’s mailing list.


                         RFP #20-02 Utility Billing Software                                 Page 41 of 78
41.   FINANCIAL STABILITY
      Vendors shall be prepared to supply a financial statement upon request, preferably a certified
      audit of the last available fiscal year. A third party prepared financial statement and the latest
      Dunn & Bradstreet report will be accepted in lieu thereof.


42.   FORCE MAJEURE
      Neither party shall be liable for any delay in performance or failure to perform any obligation
      hereunder if, and to the extent that, such failure or delay is caused by an event of Force Majeure.
      Force majeure shall mean any act, event or condition that is beyond the party’s reasonable
      control, that materially and adversely affects the party’s ability to perform its obligations
      hereunder, and that is not the result of the party’s willful neglect, error, omission or failure to
      exercise reasonable due diligence.

43.   GOVERNING FORMS
      In the event of any conflict between the terms and provisions of these requirements and the
      specifications, the specifications shall govern. In the event of any conflict of interpretation of any
      part of this overall document, the City’s interpretation shall govern.

44.   GOVERNING LAW
      Vendors shall comply with all applicable federal, state and local laws and regulations. All
      Responses are solicited and shall be made pursuant to the Code of Ordinances, City of Port
      Orange, Chapter 2, Article VI, Division 2, Section 2-263, and all Responses will be evaluated in
      accordance with the provisions thereof. Code of Ordinances, City of Port Orange is on file in the
      Office of the City Clerk, City Hall, 1000 City Center Circle, Port Orange, Florida and at
      www.municode.com.

      The City of Port Orange is also governed by the Consultants’ Competitive Negotiation Act, Section
      287.055, Florida Statutes, as the method of selecting architects, engineers and land surveyors.
      The City has utilized the procedures in the Act for Professional counselors, environmentalists,
      planners, general contractors, computer systems, designers, telecommunications consultants,
      maintenance technicians, financial services and other professional services.

      Every acquisition equal to or greater than $10,000.00 must have a signed, notarized "Public Entity
      Crimes Form” to comply with Section 287.133(3)(a), Florida Statutes. Also required is the “Drug
      Free Preference Form” to comply with Section 287.087, Florida Statutes. Each form is included in
      the Solicitation.

45.   GRANT FUNDING
      Any contract entered into by the City that is to be paid from grant funds shall be limited to
      payment from the grant funding and the vendor/provider understands that the City has not set
      aside any City funds for the payment of obligations under a grant contract. If grant funding should
      become unavailable at any time for the continuation of services paid for by the grant, and further
      funding cannot be obtained for the contract, then the sole recourse of the provider shall be to
      terminate any further services under the contract and the contract shall be null and void.




                          RFP #20-02 Utility Billing Software                                  Page 42 of 78
46.   HIPAA COMPLIANCE
      The Vendor agrees to comply with the Standards for Privacy of Individually Identifiable Health
      Information of the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, PL 104-191, 45
      CFR Parts 160-164, as amended, referred to as “HIPAA,” to the extent that the Vendor uses,
      discloses or has access to protected health information as defined by HIPAA.
47.   IDENTICAL TIE BIDS
      In accordance with Section 287.087, Florida Statutes, preference shall be given to businesses with
      Drug-Free Workplace Programs. Whenever two or more Responses that are equal with respect
      to price, quality, and service are received for the procurement of commodities or contractual
      service, a Response received from a business that certifies that it has implemented a Drug-Free
      Workplace Program shall be given preference in the award process.

48.   INDEMNIFICATION/HOLD HARMLESS
      Contractor covenants and agrees that it will indemnify and hold harmless the City and all of the
      City's officers, agents, and employees from any claim, loss, damage, costs, charge or expense
      arising out of any act, action, neglect or omission by contractor during the performance of the
      contract, whether direct, or indirect, and whether to any person or property to which the City of
      said parties may be subject, except that neither the contractor nor any of its sub-contractors will
      be liable under this section for damages arising out of injury or damage to persons or property
      directly caused or resulting from the sole negligence of City or any of its officers, agents, or
      employees.

49.   INDEPENDENT CONTRACTOR
      It is expressly understood and agreed by both parties hereto that the City is contracting with the
      successful vendor as an independent contractor. The parties hereto understand and agree that
      the City shall not be liable for any claims which may be asserted by any third party occurring in
      connection with the services to be performed by the successful vendor under this contract and
      that the successful vendor has no authority to bind the City.

      The Vendor represents itself to be an independent contractor offering such services to the general
      public and shall not represent himself or his employees to be an employee of the City. Therefore,
      the Vendor shall assume all legal and financial responsibility for taxes, FICA, employee fringe
      benefits, worker’s compensation, employee insurance, minimum wage requirements, overtime,
      etc., and agrees to indemnify, save, and hold the City, its officers, agents, and employees,
      harmless from and against, any and all loss; cost (including attorney’s fees); and damage of any
      kind related to such matters. The Vendor shall further understand that the City cannot save and
      hold harmless and or indemnify the Vendor and/or the Vendor’s employees against any liability
      incurred or arising as a result of any activity of the Bidder/Proposer or any activity of the Vendor’s
      employees performed in connection with the Contract.

50.   INSPECTIONS AND TESTING
      City of Port Orange reserves the right to inspect any item(s) or service location for compliance
      with specifications and requirements and needs of the using department. If a Vendor cannot
      furnish a sample of a Response item, where applicable, for review, or fails to satisfactorily show
      an ability to perform, the City can reject the Response as inadequate and non-responsive.




                          RFP #20-02 Utility Billing Software                                 Page 43 of 78
51.   INSURANCE
      If required upon notice of Intent to Award and prior to execution of a contract, the Vendor shall
      provide to the City a certificate of insurance identifying the City of Port Orange as an additional
      insured. For workers’ compensation coverage, the Vendor’s insurance certificate shall include the
      insurer’s waiver of subrogation in lieu of naming the city as an additional insured for workers’
      compensation. Vendor shall maintain insurance during the life of the Contract.

52.   INSURANCE CANCELLATION
      No change or cancellation in insurance shall be made without thirty (30) days’ written notice by
      the Vendor to the City. Insurance coverage required in these specifications shall be in force
      throughout the contract term. Should any awardee fail to maintain or to provide acceptable
      evidence of current insurance within five (5) days after receipt of written notice at any time during
      the contract term, the City shall have the right to consider the Contract breached which shall
      justify the termination thereof.

53.   INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS
      If required upon notice of Intent to Award and prior to execution of a contract, the Vendor shall
      provide to the City a certificate of insurance identifying the City of Port Orange as an additional
      insured. For workers’ compensation coverage, the Vendor’s insurance certificate shall include the
      insurer’s waiver of subrogation in lieu of naming the city as an additional insured for workers’
      compensation. Vendor shall maintain insurance during the life of the Contract.

      Policies other than Workers’ Compensation shall be issued by insurers licensed and/or duly
      authorized under Florida Law to do business in the State of Florida and all insuring companies are
      required to have a minimum rating of “A” in the “Best Key Rating Guide” published by A.M. Best
      & Company, Inc. Policies for Workers’ Compensation may be issued by companies authorized as
      a group self-insurer by F.S. 440.572. The Vendor shall not commence work under the contract
      until the City has received a certificate or certificates of insurance and endorsement evidencing
      the required insurance. The Vendor shall provide the City written notice of cancellation,
      nonrenewal or any other changes in coverage no later than ten (10) days prior to the effective
      date of the change.

      The City reserves the right to increase insurance coverage as determined for higher risk contracts
      and shall reimburse the Contractor for the reasonable additional costs of increased coverage.




                          [Remainder of this page left intentionally blank]




                         RFP #20-02 Utility Billing Software                                  Page 44 of 78
Insurance                                Limits: Standards                        Comments
Workers’ Compensation                    Coverage A - Statutory                   If the contract requires work on or about
                                         Coverage B - $100,000                    navigable waters, require Longshoreman’s
Additional Coverage:                                                              and Harbor Workers’ Coverage. If vessels
                                         All States (Broad Form)                  involved, require Jones Act coverage with
                                         Voluntary Compensation                   limits of $500,000.
Comprehensive General Liability          Combined Single Limit Bodily Injury      When the Contract work on or under Railroad
(including Completed Operations          and Property damage $500,000             rights of way or properties, the Contractor
and Contractual Liability                occurrence                               shall take out and maintain during the life of
                                         $1,000,000. Aggregate                    the Contract, Railroad protective liability and
                                                                                  property damage insurance in amounts as
                                                                                  requested by the Railroad.
Comprehensive                            Auto Liability Body Injury: $100,000     Or $500,000 Combined Single Limit for Bodily
Business, Automobile                     each person,                             Injury and Property Damage
Liability to include all automobiles.    $300,000 each occurrence.
                                         Property Damage Liability $100,000
Additional Coverage:                     each occurrence.

                                         Non-Owned, Hired Car
Property Insurance                       Buildings - Completed value of
Builders Risk.                           contract.                                If the Contract requires handling or
                                                                                  installation of Owner’s equipment, coverage
Additional Coverage:                 “All Risk” coverage on latest ISO            should be furnished on “All Risk” form,
                                     form or its equivalent. Permission           including transit and Owner shall be named.
                                     granted to occupy. Owner named
                                     as inured AIMA
            54.      INVOICES AND PAYMENTS
                     All invoices shall be sent to: City of Port Orange, Accounts Payable, P.O. Box 291759, Port Orange,
                     Florida, 32129. In accordance with Florida Statutes, Chapter 218, payment will be made within
                     45 days after receipt of merchandise and a proper invoice. The City will attempt to pay within
                     fewer days if Vendor offers a payment discount. The City cannot make advance payments, make
                     deposits in advance of receipt of goods, or pay C.O.D. Vendors should state any payment discount
                     in the space provided on the bid form for construction services.

            55.      IRREVOCABILITY OF RESPONSES
                     Each Vendor agrees that Responses shall remain open until the effective date not to exceed 90
                     days after selection, shall not be subject to revocation or withdrawal, and shall be subject to the
                     City Council’s acceptance of a contract with the Vendor.

            56.      LATE SUBMISSIONS, LATE MODIFICATIONS AND LATE WITHDRAWALS
                     Responses received after the Response Due Date and time are late and shall not be considered.
                     Modifications received after the Response Due Date are also late and shall not be considered.
                     Letters of withdrawal received after the Response Due Date are late and shall not be considered.
                     Letters of withdraw received after contract award shall be deemed a breach of contract, subject
                     to penalties as set forth in the contract and Solicitation.



                                        RFP #20-02 Utility Billing Software                                Page 45 of 78
57.   LEGAL REQUIREMENTS
      Applicable provision of all federal, state, county and local laws, and all ordinances, rules, and
      regulations shall govern development, submittal and evaluation of all Responses received in
      response hereto and shall govern any and all claims and disputes which may arise between
      person(s) submitting a response to a Solicitation hereto and the City by and through its officers,
      employees and authorized representatives, or any other person, natural or otherwise; and lack of
      knowledge by any Vendor shall not constitute a cognizable defense against the legal effect
      thereof.

      Upon execution of a contract, the successful Vendor shall hold harmless, indemnify and defend
      the City of Port Orange, its members, officials, officers and employees against any claim, action,
      loss, damage, injury, liability, cost and expense of whatsoever kind or nature (including, but not
      by way of limitation, attorneys' fees and court costs) arising out of or incidental to the
      performance of the Contract, whether or not due to or caused by negligence of the City of Port
      Orange, its members, officials, officers or employees. This Contract requirement shall be reflected
      in the insurance coverage certificate.

58.   LICENSES, PERMITS AND TAXES
      The Vendor shall comply with all rules, regulations, laws and permitting requirements of the City,
      Volusia County, the State of Florida, and the United States Government now in force or hereafter
      to be adopted. The Vendor shall abide by all ordinances and laws pertaining to his operations and
      shall secure, at his expense, all licenses and permits necessary for construction and operation.

59.   LITERATURE (if applicable):
      If no particular brand, model or make is specified, Vendors shall submit descriptive literature and
      technical data, fully detailing all features, designs, construction, appointments, finishes and the
      like not covered in the specifications, necessary to fully describe the equipment, material, and/or
      services he proposes to furnish.

60.   LOCAL PREFERENCE
      In accordance with City of Port Orange City Code 2-275, except where federal or state law, or any
      other funding source, mandates to the contrary, the City shall give preference to local businesses
      in the following manner:

      (a) Request for Proposals, Qualifications or other Qualitative Submittals.        In any ranking
          conducted pursuant to a request for proposals, qualifications, or other qualitative submittals
          where the bidders are rated by a point system, local businesses shall be granted the following
          preference:
          (1) Port Orange business shall be granted up to eight percent (8%) of the available points.

          (2) Volusia County business shall be granted up to five percent (5%) of the available points.

          (3) Florida business shall be granted up to three percent (3%) of the available points.

          (4) Tied bid preference. In case of a tie between a local business and a non-local business,
              the local business shall prevail. In case of a tie between two or more local businesses, the
              following order of preference shall control: first priority to Port Orange business, second
              priority to Volusia County business, and third priority to Florida business.

                         RFP #20-02 Utility Billing Software                                 Page 46 of 78
      (b) Definitions. The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this section, shall have the
          meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a
          different meaning:

          Port Orange Business means a business having its headquarters and principal place of
          business within the City of Port Orange at least twelve (12) months prior to the bid or proposal
          opening date, as evidenced by a valid business tax receipt or such other documentation, to
          the City’s satisfaction, demonstrating the physical business presence of the firm within the
          limits of the City of Port Orange.

          Volusia County Business means a business having its headquarters and principal place of
          business within the County of Volusia, and not within the City of Port Orange, at least twelve
          (12) months prior to the bid or proposal opening date, as evidenced by a valid business tax
          receipt or such other documentation, to the City’s satisfaction, demonstrating the physical
          business presence of the firm within the limits of Volusia County.

          Florida Business means a business having its headquarters and principal place of business
          within the State of Florida, and not within Volusia County, at least twelve (12) months prior
          to the bid or proposal opening date, as evidenced by a valid business tax receipt or such other
          documentation, to the city’s satisfaction, demonstrating the physical business presence of the
          firm within the limits of the State of Florida.

61.   MAINTENANCE
      Maintenance required for equipment Solicitation is preferred to be available in the City of Port
      Orange by a manufacturer-authorized maintenance facility. Costs for this service shall be shown
      on the Pricing/Delivery Information form. If the City of Port Orange opts to include maintenance,
      it shall be so stated in the purchase order and said cost will be included. Service will commence
      only upon expiration of applicable warranties and shall be priced accordingly.

62.   NAME BRANDS
      Specifications may reference name brands and model numbers. It is not the intent of the City of
      Port Orange to restrict these bids in such cases, but to establish a desired quality level of
      merchandise or to meet a pre-established standard due to like existing items. Vendors may offer
      items of equal stature and the burden of proof of such stature rests with the Vendor, unless
      otherwise specified by the City. The City of Port Orange shall act as sole judge in determining
      equality and acceptability of products offered.

63.   NON-DISCRIMINATION
      There shall be no discrimination as to race, color, religion, gender, age, marital status, national
      origin, ancestry, and physical or mental disability in the operations conducted under this contract.
      Included as applicable activities by the contractor under this section are the solicitation for or
      purchase of goods or services, or the subcontracting of work in performance of this contract.

64.   NON‐EXCLUSIVITY OF CONTRACT
      The selected Vendor understands and agrees that any resulting contractual relationship is non‐
      exclusive, and the City of Port Orange reserves the right to seek similar or identical services
      elsewhere if deemed in the best interest of the City of Port Orange.

                         RFP #20-02 Utility Billing Software                                 Page 47 of 78
65.   NON‐PERFORMANCE:
      Failure to meet the expected quality of workmanship, schedule, or other criteria agreed upon,
      shall be considered a default.

      In case of default, the City may procure the required services from other sources and hold the
      Consultant responsible for any excess costs occasioned thereby and may immediately cancel the
      contract.

66.   NOTICE TO CONTRACTOR
      The employment of unauthorized aliens by any contractor is considered a violation of Section
      274A (e) of the Immigration and Nationality Act. If the contractor knowingly employs
      unauthorized aliens, such violation shall be cause for unilateral cancellation of the contract.

67.   OPTIONAL CONTRACT USAGE
      As provided in Section 287.042(16), Florida Statutes, State of Florida agencies may purchase from
      a contract resulting from this solicitation, provided the Department of Management Services,
      Division of Purchasing, has certified its use to be cost effective and in the best interest of the State.
      Contractor(s) may sell such commodities or services certified by the Division to State of Florida
      agencies at the contractor’s option.

68.   OTHER AGENCIES
      (a) All Vendors awarded contracts from this Bid may, upon mutual agreement, permit any
          municipality or other governmental agency to participate in the contract under the same
          prices, terms, and conditions, if agreed to by both parties.

      (b) It is understood that at no time will any city, municipality, or other agency be obligated for
          placing an order for any other city, municipality, or agency; nor will any city, municipality, or
          agency be obligated for any bills incurred by any other city, municipality, or agency. Further,
          it is understood that each agency will issue its own purchase order to the awarded Vendor(s).

69.   PATENTS/COPYRIGHTS
      The successful vendor agrees to indemnify and hold the City harmless from any claim involving
      patent infringement or copyrights on goods supplied.

70.   PRE-BID CONFERENCE OR PRE-PROPOSAL CONFERENCE
      The Purchasing Manager shall determine if the pre-bid or pre-proposal conference is required and
      provide the date, time and location in the Solicitation legal advertisement and Solicitation
      specifications. The conference shall normally be held in the Council Chambers, located on the first
      floor of City Hall, 1000 City Center Circle, Port Orange, Florida. A site visit may be included and
      shall immediately follow. Attendance to the pre-bid and pre-proposal conference is normally Non-
      Mandatory. If it is Mandatory only Vendors attending a mandatory pre-bid conference will be
      eligible to submit a Response. The representative of each Vendor shall be an authorized employee
      of the Vendor and shall sign in accordingly.




                          RFP #20-02 Utility Billing Software                                    Page 48 of 78
71.   PREPARATION OF RESPONSES
      In preparing Responses, the Proposal Form, the Bid Form (when a Bid Bond is permitted as
      proposal security), Certificate as to Corporate Principal, Public Entity Crimes Statement, Anti-
      Collusion Statement, and Drug Free Preference Statement must be properly executed in ink.

      Upon the prescribed Schedule of Unit Prices, all bid prices shall be typewritten, written in ink, or
      inputted electronically in the blank spaces for each item, with the amounts extended if a unit price
      bid, and all amounts totaled. The sum of the Total Bid as calculated from the individual items,
      Schedule of Unit Prices, shall equal the Total Price. Except as provided below, bids containing
      substitutions or combinations of alternates will not be considered unless such substitutions or
      combinations are specifically authorized by the Proposal. The Vendor shall sign his/her name and
      give his/her business address in the spaces provided therefore. If the Proposal is made as a
      partnership, it shall be signed by all partners; if made by a corporation, it shall be signed in the
      name of the corporation by one of the officers thereof and shall have affixed the seal of the
      corporation.

72.   POSTPONEMENT / CANCELLATION / WAIVER OF IRREGULARITIES
      The City may, at its sole and absolute discretion, reject any and all, or parts of, Responses; re-
      advertise the Solicitation for new Responses; postpone or cancel, at any time, the Solicitation
      process; or waive any irregularities in the Solicitation or in the Responses received as a result of
      the Solicitation, or to accept that Response which best serves the interest of the City.

73.   PRICING
      The Vendor certifies that prices, terms and conditions in the Response will be firm for acceptance
      for a period of ninety (90) days from the date of Response opening unless otherwise stated by the
      City. Responses may not be withdrawn before the expiration of ninety (90) days. Prices shall be
      firm, with no escalator clauses unless specified by the City. Responses may be withdrawn after
      ninety (90) days only upon written notification to the City. Prices for all goods and/or services
      shall be firm for the duration of this contract and shall be stated on the Pricing/Delivery
      Information form.

      Prices shall be all inclusive: no price changes, additions, or subsequent qualifications will be
      honored during the course of the contract. All prices must be written in ink or typewritten. Pricing
      on all transportation, freight, drayage and other charges are to be prepaid by the contractor and
      included in the bid prices. If there are any additional charges of any kind, other than those
      mentioned above, specified or unspecified, the Vendor shall indicate the items required and
      attendant costs or forfeit the right to payment for such items. Where unit pricing and extended
      pricing differ, unit pricing prevails. In the event of any discrepancy between the written amounts
      and the numerals, the written amounts shall govern and will be considered as the price bid.

      When submitting Bids/Proposals based on a Lump Sum basis, Vendors shall be required to submit
      a Schedule of Unit Pricing for each line item listed on the Bid Proposal in order to be considered
      for award.

74.   PRODUCTS/ESTIMATES:
      Items included on the Bid Form represent the needs of various departments within the City. This
      is in no way to be construed as the entire or complete list of products to be purchased from the
      resulting contract.

                         RFP #20-02 Utility Billing Software                                 Page 49 of 78
      There is no anticipated dollar volume for this contract and cannot be guaranteed. Items shall be
      ordered on an as needed, when needed basis. Exact quantities or estimated quantities cannot be
      predetermined.

75.   PROPRIETARY INFORMATION
      Upon receipt by the City, responses to Solicitations, become public records subject to the
      provisions Florida’s state policy on public records, Section 119, Florida Statutes. If you believe
      that any portion of your response is exempt, you should clearly identify the specific documents
      for which confidentiality is claimed and provide specific legal authority of the asserted exemption.
      Any financial statement that an agency requires a prospective Vendor to submit in order to
      prequalify for bidding or for responding to a proposal for a road or any other public works project
      is exempt from Section 119.07, Florida Statutes, and Article I, 24(a), Florida Constitution.

76.   PROTECTION
      Precaution shall be exercised at all times for the protection of persons, (including employees) and
      property. All existing structures, utilities, services, roads, trees, shrubbery, etc. shall be protected
      against damage or interrupted service at all times by the Vendor during the term of contract, and
      the Vendor shall be held responsible for any damage to the property occurring by reason of his
      operation on the property.

77.   PUBLIC ENTITY CRIMES
      In accordance Section 287.133 (2)(a), Florida Statutes: A person or affiliate who has been placed
      on the convicted vendor list following a conviction for a public entity crime may not submit a bid
      on a contract to provide any goods or services to a public entity, may not submit a bid on a
      contract with a public entity for the construction or repair of a public building or public work, may
      not submit bids on leases of real property to a public entity, may not be awarded or perform work
      as a contractor, supplier, subcontractor or consultant under a contract with any public entity, and
      may not transact business with any public entity in excess of the threshold amount provided
      Section 287.017, Florida Statutes, for CATEGORY TWO for a period of 36 Months from the date of
      being placed on the convicted vendor list.

78.   PUBLIC RECORDS COMPLIANCE
      Contractor shall comply with public records laws as set forth in Section 119, Florida Statutes, and
      shall specifically:

      a. Keep and maintain public records that ordinarily and necessarily would be required by the
         City in order to perform the service.
      b. Provide the public with access to public records on the same terms and conditions that the
         City would provide the records and at a cost that does not exceed the cost provided in
         Section 119, Florida Statutes, or as otherwise provided by law.
      c. Ensure that public records that are exempt or confidential and exempt from public records
         disclosure requirements are not disclosed except as authorized by law.
      d. Meet all requirements for retaining public records and transfer to the City, at no cost, all
         public records in possession of the Contractor upon termination of the Contract and destroy
         any duplicate public records that are exempt or confidential and exempt from public records
         disclosure requirements. All records stored electronically must be provided to the City in a
         format that is compatible with the information technology systems of the City.

                          RFP #20-02 Utility Billing Software                                   Page 50 of 78
      The failure of Contractor to comply with a public records request shall constitute a material
      breach of the contract.

79.   PUBLIC RECORDS/PUBLIC MEETINGS EXEMPTION STATEMENT
      Section 119.071(1)(c), Florida Statutes: Any financial statement that an agency requires a
      prospective Vendor to submit in order to prequalify for bidding or for responding to a proposal
      for a road or any other public works project is exempt from s. 119.07(1) and s. 24(a), Art. I of
      the State Constitution. On June 2, 2011, Governor Scott signed HB 7223 into law. This new
      legislation amends Florida's Public Records and Sunshine Laws, by expanding "exemptions"
      applicable to bids, proposals and replies to sealed competitive solicitations, and closes evaluation
      meetings from the public in certain instances. First, Section 119.071, Florida Statutes was
      amended to provide that sealed bids, proposals, or replies received by a Florida public agency
      shall remain exempt from disclosure until an intended decision is announced or until 30 days from
      the opening, whichever is earlier. This means that Vendors will not be able to procure a copy of
      their competitor's bids until an intended decision is reached or 30 days has elapsed since the time
      of the bid opening. The prior version of the law provided for a 10-day exemption. Next, Section
      286.0113, Florida Statutes was amended to provide that meetings of persons appointed to
      evaluate bids or proposals and negotiate contracts shall be closed in certain circumstances.
      Specifically, portions of such meetings may now be closed to the public during oral presentations
      made by a vendor, or where a vendor answers questions. In other words, neither Vendors, nor
      the public will be permitted to sit in on meetings, unless this exemption is waived by the City
      Council, wherein their competitors are making presentations or discussing their bid or proposal
      with the committee members. The portions of these meetings must still be recorded and are
      subject to disclosure at the time of an intended award decision or within 30 days of the bid or
      proposal opening, whichever is earlier. Portions of the meetings that do not involve presentations,
      questions and answers, or negotiation strategy or negotiation sessions are still open to the public
      and competing Vendors, but the new law limits public attendance to portions of such meetings.

80.   PURCHASE ORDER AND DELIVERY
      The successful Vendor shall not deliver products or provide services without a City of Port Orange
      Purchase Order, signed by an authorized agent of the City of Port Orange. The fastest, most
      reasonable delivery time shall be indicated by the Vendor. Any special information concerning
      delivery should also be included, on a separate sheet, if necessary. All items shall be shipped F.O.B.
      INSIDE DELIVERY unless otherwise stated in the specifications. This shall be understood to include
      bringing merchandise to the appropriate room or place designated by the using department.
      Every tender or delivery of goods must fully comply with all provisions of these requirements and
      the specifications including time, delivery and quality. Nonconformance shall constitute a breach
      which shall be rectified prior to expiration of the time for performance. Failure to rectify within
      the performance period shall be considered cause to reject future deliveries and cancellation of
      the contract by City of Port Orange without prejudice to other remedies provided by law. Where
      delivery times are critical, the City of Port Orange reserves the right to award accordingly.

81.   QUALITY
      All materials used for the manufacture or construction of any supplies, materials or equipment
      covered by this bid shall be new. The items bid must be new, the latest model, of the best quality
      and highest-grade workmanship unless otherwise specified in this bid by the City.


                          RFP #20-02 Utility Billing Software                                 Page 51 of 78
82.   QUESTIONS, INTERPRETATIONS
      Questions regarding interpretation of Responses, Solicitation results or Solicitation awards shall
      be directed in writing to the Purchasing Division and referenced by the Solicitation number no
      later than the last day for questions as specified in the Solicitation documents. The City of Port
      Orange shall not be responsible for oral interpretations given by any City personnel or
      representative or others. The issuance of a written addendum is the only official method whereby
      interpretation, clarification or additional information can be given.

83.   RECORDS/AUDIT
      The Vendor shall maintain records sufficient to document their completion of the scope of
      services as a public record and as a requirement of the Contract. At all reasonable times, these
      records, unless exempt or confidential, shall be subject to review, inspection, copy and audit by
      persons duly authorized by the City. These records shall be kept for a minimum of three (3) years
      after completion of the Contract and in accordance with the requirements of public records
      retention as prescribed by general law. Records which relate to any litigation, appeals or
      settlements of claims arising from performance under this requirement shall be made available
      until a final disposition has been made of such litigation, appeals, or claims.

84.   RECYCLED MATERIALS
      City of Port Orange encourages the use of products made of recycled materials.

85.   REJECTING OF RESPONSES, REBIDDING
      The City reserves the right to accept or reject any or all Responses or parts of Responses, to waive
      irregularities and technicalities, and to request re-bids. The City also reserves the right to award
      the contract on such items the City deems will best serve the interests of the City. The City further
      reserves the right to award the contract on a "split order" basis, or such combination as shall best
      serve the interests of the City unless otherwise specified. The City Council shall have the authority
      to reject any and all Responses. If the lowest and best Response exceeds the budgeted amount
      and the City Council does not make additional funds available, the purchasing agent with the help
      of the department head shall have the authority to re-advertise the article or articles for bidding
      after making sufficient changes in the plans or specifications to bring the cost within the limit of
      the money available. (Code 1981, § 8-28.)

86.   REQUEST FOR ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
      Prior to the final Solicitation selection, Vendors may be required to submit additional information
      which the City may deem necessary to further evaluate the Vendor's qualifications to perform
      under the terms of the Solicitation and subsequent Contract.


87.   REVIEW OF RESPONSES/SUBMISSIONS
      Each Response will be reviewed to determine if the Response is responsive to the submission
      requirements outlined in the Solicitation. A responsive Response is one which follows the
      requirements of the Solicitation, includes all required documentation, is submitted in the format
      outlined in the Solicitation, is of timely submission, and has the appropriate signatures as required
      on each document. Failure to comply with these requirements may deem your Response non-
      responsive.


                         RFP #20-02 Utility Billing Software                                  Page 52 of 78
88.   RIGHT OF NEGOTIATION RFP/RFSQ/ITN
      The City reserves the right to negotiate with the selected Vendor the exact terms and conditions
      of the Contract.

89.   RIGHT OF WITHDRAWAL
      A bid, proposal, statement, or reply may not be withdrawn before the expiration of ninety (90)
      days from the Response due date.

90.   RIGHTS TO SOLICITATION SUBMITTED MATERIAL
      All Responses, inquiries, or correspondence relating to or in reference to a Solicitation, and all
      reports, charts, and other documentation submitted by Vendors shall become the property of the
      City when received.

91.   RULES, REGULATIONS AND LICENSING REQUIREMENT
      The Vendor shall comply with all laws, ordinances and regulations applicable to the services
      contemplated herein, including those applicable to conflict of interest and collusion. Vendors are
      presumed to be familiar with all federal, state and local laws, ordinances, codes and regulations
      that may in any way affect the services offered.

92.   SAMPLES
      Samples, when requested, must be furnished at, or before, Response opening, (unless otherwise
      specified), and will be delivered at no charge to the City. If not used and/or destroyed in testing,
      said sample(s) will, at the Vendor’s request, be returned within thirty (30) days after bid award at
      the Vendor’s expense. If requested by the City, samples and/or inspection of like items are to be
      made available in the central Florida area.

93.   SEPARATION AND DISTRIBUTION
      The Solicitation has been designed for transmittal as a complete document to interested parties.
      It is recommended that it not be separated; however, it may be reproduced in its entirety as
      additional distribution might dictate.

94.   SEVERABILITY
      If any section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, clause, phrase or word of these requirements or
      the specifications shall be held invalid, such holding shall not affect the remaining portions of
      these requirements and the specifications and it is hereby declared that such remaining portions
      would have been included in these requirements and the specifications as though the invalid
      portion had been omitted.

95.   SIGNATURE REQUIRED
      All Responses must show the company name and be signed by a company officer or employee
      who has the authority to bind the company or firm by their signature. UNSIGNED RESPONSES
      WILL BE REJECTED. All manual signatures must be original - no rubber stamp, photocopy, etc.

96.   SIGNED RESPONSE CONSIDERED AN OFFER
      The signed Response is considered an offer on the part of the Vendor, which offer shall be
      considered accepted upon approval by the City of Port Orange City Council (if required). The City
                         RFP #20-02 Utility Billing Software                                 Page 53 of 78
      of Port Orange will issue a purchase order or a letter of authorization to the successful Vendor, as
      authorization for delivery of the items awarded subject to requirements of detailed specifications
      and those contained herein. In the event of default on the part of the Vendor after such
      acceptance, the City may take such action as it deems appropriate including legal action for
      damages or specific performance.

97.   SILENCE OF SPECIFICATIONS
      The apparent silence of specifications as to any detail, or the apparent omission from it of a
      detailed description concerning any point, shall be regarded as meaning that only the best
      commercial practice is to prevail and that only material and workmanship of the finest quality are
      to be used. All interpretations of specifications shall be made on the basis of this statement. The
      items furnished under this contract shall be new, unused of the latest product in production to
      commercial trade and shall be of the highest quality as to materials used and workmanship.
      Manufacturer furnishing these items shall be experienced in design and construction of such
      items and shall be an established supplier of the item bid.

98.   SOLICITATION FORM COMPLETION, SUBMISSION AND RECEIPT OF RESPONSES
      Unless otherwise specified, Vendors shall use the Solicitation forms supplied by the Purchasing
      Division. Responses shall be typewritten or handwritten in ink and shall bear the original
      signature of the Vendor’s authorized representative. Responses containing erasures or
      corrections must be initialed by the Vendor in ink. Responses shall be submitted by mail or hand
      delivery only. No Response will be accepted by facsimile transmission, e-mail or other electronic
      delivery. Responses submitted by mail shall be addressed to: David Van Valkenburgh Purchasing
      Agent, Purchasing Office, a division of the Finance Department, Port Orange City Hall, 1000 City
      Center, Port Orange, Florida 32129. Responses submitted by hand delivery shall be delivered to:
      City Clerk, Port Orange City Hall, 1000 City Center Circle, Port Orange, Florida 32129. Responses
      will be accepted until 2:30 p.m. on the date indicated in the Solicitation documents or as addenda
      issued by the City. One (1) sealed envelope or package shall be submitted. The sealed
      envelope/package must contain the required forms and price proposals, where applicable, and
      will be evaluated and deemed responsive or non-responsive. All Responses deemed non-
      responsive will be returned to the Vendor and will not be opened.

      Bids (Envelope/Package) shall contain one (1) original and one (1) digital (Cd or flash drive) version
      unless otherwise indicated in the legal advertisement and shall be mailed or delivered as set forth
      in the preceding paragraph in one (1) SEALED ENVELOPE/PACKAGE. The envelope/package shall
      be clearly marked on the outside to include the bid project name, bid number and name of the
      Vendor.

99.   STATE LICENSING REQUIREMENTS
      All entities defined under Chapters 607, 608, 617 or 620, Florida Statutes, seeking to do business
      with the City shall be on file and in good standing with the State of Florida’s Department of State.
      Prior to making an offer, the Vendor shall have met the license, certification, and any other
      requirements of the state, county, city and/or other agency of authority with jurisdiction in such
      matters and should provide copies of documentation that evidence such qualifications with the
      response to the Solicitation; and, that the Vendor shall provide follow-up evidence that the
      Vendor maintains such credentials throughout the period of the agreement. A copy of a current
      certificate of authority from the Secretary of State authorizing the Bidder/Responder to do
      business in the State of Florida, or other evidence of legal authority to do business in the state,
      county, city and/or any other agency of authority should be provided with your response to the
                          RFP #20-02 Utility Billing Software                                  Page 54 of 78
       Solicitation. Information concerning certification with the Secretary of State may be obtained at
       http://ccfcorp.dos.state.fl.us/index.html. Contract documents shall be executed by the entity’s
       duly authorized officer as evidence by entity records.

100.   SUBCONTRACTING
       The Vendor will not sub‐contract or enter into any subcontracting agreements pertaining to this
       contract, without obtaining approval from the City of Port Orange.

101.   SUPPLEMENTAL MATERIALS
       Vendors are responsible for including all pertinent product data in the returned bid package.
       Literature, brochures, data sheets, specification information, completed forms requested as part
       of the bid package and any other facts which may affect the evaluation and subsequent contract
       award should be included. Materials such as legal documents and contractual agreements that
       the Vendor wishes to include as a condition of the bid must also be in the returned bid package.
       Failure to include all necessary and proper supplemental materials may be cause to reject the
       entire bid.

102.   TAXES
       The City of Port Orange is exempt from all federal excise, state and local taxes unless otherwise
       stated in this document. A Tax Exemption Certificate will be furnished upon written request to
       the City of Port Orange Purchasing Division.

103.   TERM CONTRACTS
       Acceptance by the City of Port Orange of Vendor’s offer shall be limited to the terms herein unless
       expressly agreed in writing by the City. If the contract is intended to cover a specific time period,
       the term will be given in the bid specifications.

104.   TERMINATION
       The City of Port Orange reserves the right to terminate the contract for default if the Vendor
       breaches any of the terms therein, including warranties of the Vendor or if the Vendor becomes
       insolvent or commits acts of bankruptcy. Such right of termination is in addition to and not in lieu
       of any other remedies which the City of Port Orange may have in law or equity. Default may be
       construed as, but not limited to, failure to deliver the proper goods and/or services within the
       proper amount of time, and/or to properly perform any and all services required to the City’s
       satisfaction and/or to meet all other obligations and requirements. The City may cancel the
       Contract at any time for breach of contractual obligations by providing the Vendor with a written
       notice of such cancellation. Should the City exercise its right to cancel the contract for such
       reasons, the cancellation shall become effective on the date as specified in the notice of
       cancellation sent to the Vendor.

105.   TERMINATION - NOTICE
       Either party may cancel the contract at any time after award, unless otherwise specified. The City
       shall be required to give the vendor notice thirty days prior to the date of cancellation of the
       contract. The vendor shall be required to give the City written notice (60) sixty days prior to the
       date of cancellation of the contract. The City of Port Orange may terminate the contract without
       cause upon thirty (30) days written notice.


                          RFP #20-02 Utility Billing Software                                  Page 55 of 78
106.   TITLE TRANSFER
       Title and Risk of Loss of goods shall not pass to the City of Port Orange until City of Port Orange
       actually receives and takes possession of the goods at the point or points of delivery. Receiving
       times may vary with the using department. Generally, deliveries may be made between 8:30 a.m.
       and 3:00 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Vendor is advised to consult the using department for
       instructions. The place of delivery shall be specified in the bid specification and/or on the Purchase
       Order as a “Deliver To:” address.

107.   UNBALANCED BID
       A mathematically unbalanced bid is where a bidder places a high price on some items and a low
       price on other items in a unit price contract. A bid is materially unbalanced when there is
       reasonable doubt that acceptance of a mathematically unbalanced bid will result in the lowest
       overall cost to the City. Unbalanced Bids will be rejected if the prices are deemed materially
       unbalanced.

108.   USE OF SOLICITATION FORMS
       The Vendor shall complete the appropriate Solicitation Form(s) included in the Solicitation. All
       blanks on the Solicitation Forms shall be completed. If a question or confirmation is not applicable,
       it should be answered with an "N/A.”

       Supplemental information may be attached to the Solicitation Forms. Failure to fully complete
       the appropriate Solicitation Forms may result in disqualification of the Response.

       If additional space for a response is required, attach an additional page to the page on which the
       question is stated. Clearly identify the number of the question to which the response is attached.
       Further, if additional Solicitation Form pages are needed, photocopy or replicate as appropriate,
       and attach such additional pages to the page on which the question or chart is stated.

       The signature of the Authorized Person or Entity must be that of an officer, partner or a sole
       proprietor of the entity making the Response. The original Response, and each copy submitted,
       shall contain an original signature on the Vendor’s Acknowledgement Form contained in each
       Solicitation.

109.   VARIANCES
       For purposes of Response evaluation, Vendors must indicate any variances, no matter how slight,
       contained in the Response. No variations or exceptions by a Vendor will be considered or deemed
       a part of the Response submitted unless such variances or exceptions are listed in the Response
       and referenced in the space provided on the Response pages. If variances are not stated, or
       referenced as required, it will be assumed that the product or service complies with the City’s
       terms, conditions and specifications. By receiving a Response, the City does not necessarily accept
       any variances contained in the Response. All variances submitted are subject to review and
       approval by the City. If any Response contains material variances that, in the City’s sole opinion,
       make that Response conditional in nature, the City reserves the right to reject the Response or
       part of the Response that is declared, by the City, as conditional.

110.   VENDOR’S PRODUCT OR SERVICES
       The Vendor’s product (if applicable) delivered to the City shall be free of all liens, claims or
       encumbrances, and the vendor warrants that it has a clear title to the product being delivered.
                           RFP #20-02 Utility Billing Software                                  Page 56 of 78
       a. If the Vendor is contracted to provide services, such services shall be fully satisfactory to the
          City as determined by the City.

       b. The Vendor shall provide the City with any data, reports or other information as required
          and requested by the City to enable it to utilize the product or service furnished by the
          Vendor.

       c. In furnishing the service or product to the City, the Vendor shall comply with all federal,
          state, county laws, and city rules, regulations and codes and their successors or
          amendments. Violation of such laws, rules, regulations and codes may be grounds for
          delaying or reducing the amount due, or in rescinding the contract, Contract, proposal or
          quote.

111.   WAIVER OF IRREGULARITIES
       The City of Port Orange reserves the right to waive and/or reject any non-substantial irregularity
       in Responses received whenever such waiver or rejection is in the best interest of the City and/or
       it does not meet the minimum requirements set forth. All reasonably responsive Responses will
       be considered. However, the City reserves the right to waive formalities or informalities in
       Responses, to reject, with or without cause, any or all Responses or portions of Responses, or to
       interview or not interview individual Vendors, and to accept any Responses or portions of
       Responses deemed to be in the best interest of the City. The city council shall grant the City
       Manager to waive any and all non-substantial irregularities in any and all formal Solicitations.
       (Code 1981, § 8-29; Ord. No. 2015-17, § 1, 5-19-2015)

112.   WARRANTIES
       Vendors shall furnish all data pertinent to warranties or guarantees which may apply to items in
       the Response. Vendors may not limit or exclude any implied warranties. The Vendor warrants that
       product sold to the City shall conform to the standards established by the U.S. Department of
       Labor under the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970. In the event product does not
       conform to OSHA Standards, where applicable, City of Port Orange may return the product for
       correction or replacement at the Vendor’s expense. If the Vendor fails to make the appropriate
       correction within a reasonable time, City of Port Orange may correct at the Vendor’s expense.



                               [Remainder of this page left intentionally blank]




                          RFP #20-02 Utility Billing Software                                 Page 57 of 78
                                         SECTION 6 – SPECIAL CONDITIONS

PERIOD OF OFFER VALIDITY:
Proposal offered in this RFP must remain firm for a period of ninety (90) days from the RFP opening date.

CONTRACT TERMS:
The term of the initial contract will be for Five (5) year from date of Notice to Proceed. Contract will be
renewable for up to two (2) one (1) year renewal periods, upon agreement of both parties. Renewal
will be approved by the City Manager and the budget will be approved by City Council.

EMERGENCY SERVICES:
The Proposing Contractor supplying complete maintenance and support services on a 24 hour, 7-day-a-
week basis with an emergency response time of four (4) hours or less. This branch facility shall provide
the work for this project. This support facility shall have a spare parts and all necessary test and diagnostic
equipment required to install, commission and service the specified systems.

WARRANTY:
All goods and services furnished by the Responder, relating to and pursuant to this RFP will be warranted
to meet or exceed the Specifications contained herein. In the event of breach, the Responder will take all
necessary action, at the Responder’s expense, to correct such breach in the most expeditious manner
possible.

PERMITS, ETC:
All Proposals submitted shall include in the price the cost of any business or professional licenses, permits
or fees required by the City and any agency having jurisdiction over the services solicited through this
Request for Proposal.

INSURANCE:
See Section 5 item #53 for insurance requirements (page 44)

ELIGIBILITY OF VENDOR:
To be eligible to respond to this RFP, the Vendor must have the ability to prove in their submission that
they meet all qualifications and working experience with the services as described in the RFP.

ESCALATION / DE-ESCALATION
Bid prices shall remain firm for a period of one-year (1) year from the date of award. The contract prices
may be changed after the first year for the following reasons:
An increase or decrease in the supplier’s cost of materials and/or labor may be justification for price
change; however, this shall not be construed in any way to increase vendor’s margin of profit. All written
request for a price increase must include backup documentation as to the nature of the increase and shall
be submitted to the City Purchasing Manager at least 30 days prior to the scheduled price
increase/decrease or renewal of contract. Approval of each request shall be by written confirmation from
the City Purchasing Manager. If the City should consider said increase unwarranted or unreasonable, the
City reserves the right to terminate the contract with the vendor. Any price decline at the manufacturer’s
level shall be reflected in an immediate reduction of the contract prices and the vendor shall notify the
buyer of said decline.




                            RFP #20-02 Utility Billing Software                                  Page 58 of 78
1.   Termination for Convenience of the City
           (a)     The parties agree that the City may terminate this Contract, or any work or delivery
     required hereunder, from time to time either in whole or part, whenever the City Manager of Port
     Orange shall determine that such termination is in the best interest of the City.
           (b)       Termination, in whole or in part, shall be affected by delivery of a Notice of
     Termination signed by the City Manager or his designee, mailed or delivered to the Contractor,
     and specifically setting forth the effective date of termination.
           (c)       Upon receipt of such Notice, the Contractor shall:
             (i)      cease any further deliveries or work due under this Contract, on the date, and to
                       the extent, which may be specified in the Notice;
             (ii)      place no further orders with any subcontractors except as may be necessary to
                       perform that portion of this Contract not subject to the Notice;
             (iii)     terminate all subcontracts except those made with respect to contract
                       performance not subject to the Notice;
             (iv)       settle all outstanding liabilities and claims which may arise out of such
                       termination, with the ratification of the Finance Director of Port Orange; and
             (v)       use best efforts to mitigate any damages which may be sustained by the
                       Contractor as a consequence of termination under this clause.
           (d)    After complying with the provisions of subparagraph (c), above, the Contractor shall
     submit a termination claim, in no event later than six (6) months after the effective date of
     termination, unless one or more extensions of three (3) months each are granted by the Finance
     Director.
            (e)     The Finance Director, with the approval of the City Manager, shall pay from the
     using department's budget, reasonable costs of termination, including a reasonable amount for
     profit on supplies or services delivered or work completed. In no event shall this amount be
     greater than the original contract price, reduced by any payments made prior to Notice of
     Termination, and further reduced by the price of the supplies not delivered or the services not
     provided. This Contract shall be amended accordingly, and the Contractor shall be paid the agreed
     amount.
           (f)     In the event that the parties cannot agree on the whole amount to be paid to the
     Contractor by reason of termination under this clause, the Finance Director shall pay the
     Contractor the amounts determined as follows, without duplicating any amounts which may have
     already been paid under the preceding paragraph of this clause:
             (i)      With respect to all Contract performance prior to the effective date of Notice of
                      Termination, the total of:
                       (1)       the cost of work performed or supplies delivered;
                       (2)        the cost of settling and paying any reasonable claims as provided in
                                  paragraph (c) (iv), above;
                       (3)        a sum as profit on (a) determined by the Finance Director to be fair and
                                   reasonable.
             (ii)      The total sum to be paid under (i) above shall not exceed the contract price, as
                       further reduced by the contract price of work or supplies not terminated.
                             RFP #20-02 Utility Billing Software                             Page 59 of 78
               (g)     In the event that the Contractor is not satisfied with any payments which the
        Finance Director shall determine to be due under this clause, the Contractor may appeal any claim
        to the City Council in accordance with Paragraph 23 of this contract concerning disputes.
2.      Termination for Convenience for Subcontractors. In accordance with the termination for the
convenience of the City provision of this contract, the Contractor shall include similar provisions in any
subcontract, and shall specifically include a requirement that subcontractors make all reasonable efforts
to mitigate damages which may be suffered. Failure to include such provisions shall bar the Contractor
from any recovery from the City whatsoever of loss or damage sustained by a subcontractor as a
consequence of termination for convenience.




                        [Remainder of this page left intentionally blank]




                           RFP #20-02 Utility Billing Software                               Page 60 of 78
                         SECTION 7 – PROPOSAL SUBMITTAL & REQUIREMENTS

Proposals shall include all of the information solicited in this RFP, and any additional data that the
respondent deems pertinent to the understanding and evaluation of the proposal. The respondent should
not withhold any information from the written response in anticipation of presenting the information
orally or in a demonstration, since oral presentations or demonstrations may not be solicited.

Submittal of a proposal shall constitute the Vendor’s agreement and intent to follow and adhere to all
statements, offerings and monetary incentives contained within this proposal.

The sections of the submitted Proposals that will be scored during the evaluation process are identified
with the maximum attainable points. Additional areas used for awarding evaluation points are addressed
in “Section 8 – Evaluation of Proposals.”

In conjunction with other material and information requested in the RFP, all Vendors responding to this
solicitation shall provide one (1) original, and one (1) identical digital version in pdf format on CD or USB
flash/thumb drive. The digital version must be an identical copy of the fully signed original submission.
All required attachments are to be in 8 ½" by 11" format, clearly legible, tabbed and bound in the following
order:

TABLE OF CONTENTS:

The Table of Contents should outline in sequential order the areas of submittal. All pages, including
enclosures, must be clearly and consecutively labeled and/or numbered and correspond to the Table of
Contents.

STATEMENT OF INTEREST:

The responding firm will provide a letter, on letterhead, not exceeding two (2) pages, which serves as a
statement of interest and introduction to the submittal. The Statement of Interest shall show the RFP
number and title. This letter must be signed by the person authorized to bind the firm, company, or
corporate entity. The Statement of Interest should also include the name and contact information of a
customer contract manager who will serve as the main point of contact for all issues related to the services
performed under the scope of this RFP.

COMPANY HISTORY, QUALIFICATIONS, ABILITY, and CAPACITY:

•   Legal name and principal office address.
•   Telephone number and e-mail address.
•   State of incorporation of the entity.
•   List of names and addresses of the primary owners/board members.
•   Name of agent who is authorized to negotiate with the City of Port Orange.
•   List of currently or previously performed projects of similar work.
•   Provide a summary of qualification and experience of providing installation, configuration,
    maintenance of facility security, access control, and surveillance cameras.




                            RFP #20-02 Utility Billing Software                                 Page 61 of 78
BUSINESS LICENSES/ SUNBIZ:

•   Include copy of license to do business in the State of Florida or Sunbiz report showing your company
    registered as “Active.” or appropriate qualified commercial entity licensed in the area specified in the
    scope of work
•   Include a copy of any and all professional licenses and certifications as required to perform the
    services described herein and of the professional licenses for each team member.

FINANCIAL STABILITY/LITIGATION and DEBARMENT HISTORY:

•   All Respondents shall be prepared to supply a financial statement upon request, preferably a certified
    audit of the last available fiscal year. A third party prepared financial statement and the latest Dunn
    & Bradstreet report will be accepted in lieu thereof.
•   It is essential that the Vendor clearly demonstrates the financial ability to reliably deliver services. This
    Tab shall contain information on the nature and magnitude of any litigation or proceeding whereby,
    during the past five (5) years, a court or any administrative agency has ruled against the firm in any
    matter related to the professional activities of the firm.
    This shall include any class actions within your company where named, industry investigations by the
    Attorney General, in addition to individual cases.
•   This Tab shall contain information on the nature and magnitude of any debarment or proceeding
    during the past five (5) years against the firm in any matter related to the professional activities of the
    firm.
•    This shall include any debarment actions against your company by the City or other public entity.
•   Respondent must indicate whether any contract awarded by another government agency has been
    terminated in default or convenience.
•   Respondent has a continuing duty to inform the City of any new claims filed against the Respondent.
•    A copy of the most recent external peer review report and any letter of comment.

REFERENCES:
Include all required City of Port Orange forms. FAILURE TO PROVIDE ALL INFORMATION listed on each
form may result in the rejection of your proposal or a reduction in evaluation points. Required forms
include:
   •     Provide a minimum of three (3) and a maximum of five (5) Client References (DO NOT INCLUDE
   THE CITY OF PORT ORANGE AS REFERENCES) within the last five (5) years for the services described in
   this RFP. Include the name and type of entity, the contact name, email address and telephone number
   of the public officer in charge of the contract, and the years in which the services have been provided.

*The information provided under this tab, must be current and the City must be able to contact
references for verification as part of the evaluation process.

    • All reference contact information MUST be verified as current by the Proposer prior to submittal.
    References which cannot be verified using the provided contact information will receive no points
    under the evaluation criteria.
    • Below is a sample of the verification questions that may be used:
     1. Did they meet the terms of the contract?
     2. Was the project completed on time and within budget?
     3. Did they respond in a timely manner to calls, requests, etc.?
     4. Did they provide adequate staff to take care of the needs of your company/agency?
     5. In your previous projects, were there any change orders? If so, how many?
                            RFP #20-02 Utility Billing Software                                    Page 62 of 78
REQUIRED FORMS:
Include all required City of Port Orange forms. FAILURE TO PROVIDE ALL INFORMATION listed on each
form may result in the rejection of your proposal or a reduction in evaluation points. Required forms
include:

•   Form 9.1 Proposal Submittal Checklist
•   Form 9.2 Vendor Acknowledgement Form
•   Form 9.3 Addendum and Change Order Procedure Acknowledgement Form
•   Form 9.4 Drug-Free Preference Statement
•   Form 9.5 Sworn Statement on Public Entity Crimes
•   Form 9.6 Affidavit of Anti-Collusion Form
•   Form 9.7 Local Business Affidavit of Eligibility
•   Form 9.8 Professional References for Previous Experience
•   Schedule of Unit Pricing Sheet




                      [Remainder of this page left intentionally blank]




                          RFP #20-02 Utility Billing Software                            Page 63 of 78
                                    SECTION 8 – EVALUATION OF PROPOSALS
EVALUATION CRITERIA:
A. EXPERIENCE and QUALIFICATIONS: (Maximum - 30 points)

       a) Provide a brief company biography, two (2) pages maximum. Include general information on
          the company, number of years the company has been in business, the location of corporate
          headquarters, and the number of branch offices.
       b) Provide the address(es) of the company’s office from which the services for the District will
          be provided. State the number of administrative personnel staffing the servicing office.
          Provide the local or toll-free telephone number for on-call emergency service call requests.
       c) State the names of the technicians that will be providing service under this Agreement. List
          each technician’s years of experience, current Florida Electrical Certifications, and
          manufacturers’ certifications. Provide a copy of all certifications listed or license number.
       d) Provide a copy of your current State of Florida business license; pending licenses will not be
          accepted. If applicable, provide a copy of the county business license of primary business
          operations. If not applicable, please provide a statement that a business license is not
          required and provide the city, county, and state of your primary business operations.
       e) State the Responder’s response time to provide a technician onsite when service is requested
          by the City.
       f) State the Responder’s preferred method of accessing a full stock of equipment and supply
          parts. (for example, Responder maintains limited quantities of specific, high-volume models;
          turn-around time to obtain, etc.)
       g) Complete the Reference Form and provide a list of professional references (other than the
          City of Port Orange) in which you have provided similar services proposed in this RFP within
          the last five (5) years. References must be from at least three (3) different entities. The
          Reference Form must be signed in order to be awarded any points.

B. SCOPE OF SERVICES: (Maximum - 30 points)

       a) Project Plan: This project will require careful planning to ensure that the City can retain overall
          network functionality during this implementation. The City will consider the Responder’s
          certifications and related expertise in place given the Responder’s chosen component.
          Although function will outweigh form, the City will consider the level of attention to detail in
          the overall scope and the tackling all aspects of the specifications and drawings as an indicator
          of the project’s likelihood of success.
       b) Installation: Describe the level of work that the City should expect from the Responder. If the
          Responder cannot provide total installation, delineate the services of the Responder and any
          subcontractor(s). For example, the Responder can lay the necessary cable for an installation
          but would need to utilize a subcontractor to bury the lines.
       c) Project Duration: Describe the timeline from project start to significant completion once
          notice to proceed is issued to include acquiring materials, acquiring licenses, obtaining
          permits if necessary, mobilizing labor and equipment, installation and configuration, and
          knowledge transfer.
       d) Requirement from City Staff: Describe in detail the level of effort required from City staff as
          part of the overall project.
       e) Maintenance and Warranty: State the Responder’s warranty that is in addition or separate
          from the manufacturers’ standard warranty. Provide the standard warranty for
          manufacturer(s) of surveillance cameras and access control equipment listed in scope of
          services.


                           RFP #20-02 Utility Billing Software                                 Page 64 of 78
 C. COST OF SERVICES: (Maximum - 30 points)

           a) Cost of Services: Cost of services must be in a separate seated envelope. No pricing will be
              given consideration until all proposals are evaluated based on the items in Section V.
              Paragraphs A and B.
           b) Cost Plus a Percentage of Cost: Any proposal using a ‘Cost Plus a Percentage of Cost” pricing
              method will not be accepted. Any Responder using "Cost Plus” pricing will receive zero (0)
              points for this Section.
           c) Time and Material: All cameras, card readers, door strikes, server systems, and other major
              hardware components; cable, patching facilities, bonding and grounding components;
              construction, installation, mounting, connection, and testing; hardware and software
              licenses; as built and other documentation; and miscellaneous components as required to
              create a complete and operational system.

 D. LICENSES, FINANCIAL HISTORY AND REFERENCES: (Maximum - 10 points)

           a) Provide a copy of your current State of Florida business license or appropriate qualified
              commercial entity licensed in the area specified in the scope of work. Include a copy of any
              and all professional licenses and certifications as required to perform the services described
              herein and of the professional licenses for each team member.
           b) All Respondents shall be prepared to supply a financial statement upon request, preferably a
              certified audit of the last available fiscal year. A third party prepared financial statement and
              the latest Dunn & Bradstreet report will be accepted in lieu thereof.
           c) Provide References

      Firms submitting the required criteria will have their proposals evaluated and scored for quality of
      response, qualifications, experience, including implementation and cost. The following represents the
      principal selection criteria, which will be considered during the evaluation process. Criteria will be
      weighted based on 100% of total value. Category Scores listed below are the maximum number of
      points to be awarded per each evaluator.


 EVALUATION CRITERIA FOR WRITTEN PROPOSALS                                                                 CATEGORY SCORE


EXPERIENCE and QUALIFICATIONS: ....................................................................................... (30 points)

SCOPE OF SERVICES: ………………………………………………………………………………….………………………… (30 points)

COST OF SERVICES:.………………………………………………………………………….………………………..............(30 points)

LICENSES, FINANCIAL HISTORY AND REFERENCES: .…………………………………………………………….... (10 points)


      Total Maximum Points                                                                                         (100 points)
      _________________________________________________________________________________________

              BONUS POINTS: Local Preference per Ordinance Sec. 2-275
         •    Port Orange Business eight percent of available points (8 points)
         •    Volusia County Business five percent of available points (5 points)
         •    Florida Business three percent of available points (3 points)

                                  RFP #20-02 Utility Billing Software                                             Page 65 of 78
Please note that prices may be negotiated in the best interest of the City after the scoring is completed.


RFP EVALUATION SCHEDULE:
Refer to the Timeline in Section 2 of the RFP document regarding proposed evaluation date(s) and time(s).
The City reserves the right to alter dates as needed.

EVALUATION PROCEDURE:
The Evaluation Committee is comprised of City staff and may include City Council Member who will
evaluate, and rank proposals based on a weighted score point formula. All interested professionals are
hereby cautioned not to contact any staff or Council member of the City of Port Orange, or any member
of the Evaluation Committee. Any and all questions should be made through the Purchasing Manager and
any attempts to lobby or persuade through any other channels may result in disqualification.

All proposals will be subject to a review and evaluation process. It is the intent of the City that all Vendors
responding to this RFP, who meet the requirements, will be ranked in accordance with the criteria
established in these documents. The City will consider all responsive and responsible proposals received
in its evaluation and award process. The committee may choose to conduct an oral interview with each
finalist.

The City’s evaluation criteria, as identified above, for written proposals will include consideration of, but
will not be limited to the following:

1.      Responsiveness of the proposal related to the Scope of Services;
2.      The ability, capability and skill of the Vendor to perform the contract, including the range of
        services offered.
3.      Whether the provider can perform the contract within the time specified without delay or
        interference.
4.      The quality, availability and adaptability of the supplies or contractual services to the particular
        use required;
5.      The character, integrity, reputation, judgment, experience and efficiency of the Vendor;
6.      Professional licensure required when service of a skilled nature is required by law to perform such
        service and/or skill;
7.      The quality of performance of previous contracts;
8.      The number and scope of conditions attached to the bid or proposal;
9.      Responsiveness of client references;
10.     Net costs.
11.     Local preference policy (if applicable)

FORMAL ORAL PRESENTATIONS/INTERVIEWS in person (Required):
The City has chosen to conduct oral interviews with or receive oral presentations from one or more of the
Vendors. The City is requiring oral interviews and/or presentations, such interviews or oral presentations
will not be open to the public pursuant to the conditions set forth in Florida Statute § 286.0113. If oral
presentations or interviews are held the following guidelines will be used:

The City’s Purchasing Division will establish the schedule and Vendors will be notified via
www.demandstar.com at least five (5) calendar days in advance of the date, time and place of the
presentations.
                            RFP #20-02 Utility Billing Software                                  Page 66 of 78
 The City will allot equal time for each Vendor divided into two sequential parts: formal presentations
 and questions and answers. The times allotted are maximums and no Vendor will be penalized for using
 less than the allotted time.

 FINAL RANKING AND RECOMMENDATION FOR AWARD:
 After oral presentations are completed, the Evaluation Committee will score the presentations for
 qualifications, experience, engagement approach, and schedule to determine a final ranking of the short-
 listed Vendors considered to be most capable of performing the required project in the best interest of
 the City. The following represents the principal selection criteria, which will be considered during the
 evaluation process. Criteria will be weighted based on 100% of total value. Category Scores listed below
 are the maximum number of points to be awarded per each evaluator.

EVALUATION CRITERIA FOR ORAL PROPOSALS                                                                     CATEGORY SCORE


EXPERIENCE and QUALIFICATIONS: ....................................................................................... (30 points)

SCOPE OF SERVICES: ………………………………………………………………………………….………………………… (30 points)

COST OF SERVICES:.………………………………………………………………………….………………………..............(30 points)

LICENCES, FINANCIAL HISTORY AND REFERENCES: .…………………………………………………………….... (10 points)


Total Maximum Points                                                                                               (100 points)
      _________________________________________________________________________________________

                         BONUS POINTS: Local Preference per Ordinance Sec. 2-275
                    •    Port Orange Business eight percent of available points (8 points)
                    •    Volusia County Business five percent of available points (5 points)
                    •    Florida Business three percent of available points (3 points)



 The Evaluation Committee’s final ranking will be provided to the Purchasing Manager to read aloud. The
 City’s Project Manager will provide a notice of intent to award to the Purchasing Manager. The intent to
 award will be posted on www.demandstar.com The City project manager will create an agenda item
 recommending award to the City Council. City Council’s decision will be final.




                              [Remainder of this page left intentionally blank]




                                  RFP #20-02 Utility Billing Software                                             Page 67 of 78
                                              SECTION 9 – REQUIRED FORMS

   FORM 9.1 – PROPOSAL SUBMITTAL CHECKLIST

   ______ Form 9.2 – Vendor’s Acknowledgement Form

   ______ Form 9.3 – Addendum and Change Order Procedure Acknowledgement Form

   ______ Form 9.4 – Drug Free Preference Statement

   ______ Form 9.5 – Sworn Statement Pursuant to Section 287.133 (3)(a) F.S. in Public Entity Crimes

   ______ Form 9.6 – Affidavit of Anti-Collusion Form

   ______ Form 9.7 – Local Business Affidavit of Eligibility

   ______ Form 9.8 – Professional References for Previous Experience

   ______ Copy of License (Contractor, Sunbiz, Etc.)


   ______ Submission of one (1) original marked “ORIGINAL”, and one (1) identical digital version in PDF
   format on CD or USB flash/thumb drive.




BY: _____________________________________
    Vendor

   ______________________________________
   Authorized Signature

   ______________________________________
   Date


               This document must be completed and returned with your Submittal




                               RFP #20-02 Utility Billing Software                            Page 68 of 78
FORM 9.2 – VENDOR’S ACKNOWLEDGEMENT FORM
I have carefully examined the Request for Proposals (RFP), Instructions to Vendors, General and/or Special
Conditions, Specifications, and any other documents accompanying or made a part of this invitation.

I hereby propose to furnish the goods or services specified in the Request for Proposals at the prices or rates as
finally negotiated. I agree that my proposal will remain firm for a period of up to ninety (90) days in order to allow
the City of Port Orange adequate time to evaluate the proposal. Furthermore, I agree to abide by all conditions of
the Request for Proposals.
I certify that all information contained in this proposal is truthful to the best of my knowledge and belief. I further
certify that I am a duly authorized to submit this proposal on behalf of the Vendor / Contractor as its act and deed
and that the Vendor / Contractor is ready, willing and able to perform if awarded the contract.

I further certify that this proposal is made without prior understanding, Contract, connection, discussion, or
collusion with any person, firm or corporation submitting a proposal for the same product or service; no officer,
employee or agent of the City of Port Orange City Council or of any other Vendor interested in said RFP; and that
the undersigned executed this Vendor’s Acknowledgement with full knowledge and understanding of the matters
therein contained and was duly authorized to do so.
I further certify that having read and examined the specifications and documents for the designated services and
understanding the general conditions for contract under which services will be performed, does hereby propose to
furnish all labor, equipment, and material to provide the services set forth in the RFP.
I hereby declare that the following listing states any clarifications, any and all variations from and exceptions to the
requirements of the specifications and documents. The undersigned further declares that the “work” will be
performed in strict accordance with such requirements and understands that any exceptions to the requirements
of the specifications and documents may render the proposal non‐responsive.

NO EXCEPTIONS ALLOWED AFTER THE PROPOSAL IS SUBMITTED:
Please check one: □ I take NO exceptions. □ Exceptions (list below; add additional pages if necessary):
_____________________________________________________________________________________________
_____________________________________________________________________________________________

____________________________________________                    _______________________________________
NAME OF BUSINESS                                                MAILING ADDRESS

____________________________________________                    _______________________________________
AUTHORIZED SIGNATURE                                            CITY, STATE & ZIP CODE

____________________________________________                    _______________________________________
NAME, TITLE, TYPED                                              TELEPHONE NUMBER / FAX NUMBER

____________________________________________                    ______________________________________
FEDERAL IDENTIFICATION #                                        E‐MAIL ADDRESS

STATE OF ____________________ COUNTY OF ___________________________

The foregoing instrument was acknowledged before me this day of _________________, 20____ by
_________________________________, who is personally known to me or who has produced ad identification and
who did take an oath.

My Commission Expires:                                     _____________________________________
                                                           Notary Public
                       This document must be completed and returned with your Submittal




                               RFP #20-02 Utility Billing Software                                        Page 69 of 78
FORM 9.3 – ADDENDUM and CHANGE ORDER PROCEDURE ACKNOWLEDGEMENT

ADDENDUM ACKNOWLEDGEMENT
I have carefully examined the Invitation to Bid (ITB), Instructions to Vendors, General and/or Special Conditions,
Specifications, and any other documents accompanying or made a part of this invitation to Bid.

I acknowledge receipt and incorporation of the following addenda, and the cost, if any, of such revisions has been
included in the price of the bid proposal.

Addendum # _______               Date: ____________             Addendum # _______             Date: ____________

Addendum # _______               Date: ____________             Addendum # _______             Date: ____________

CHANGE ORDER PROCEDURE ACKNOWLEDGEMENT
If awarded the Contract for this Solicitation, I acknowledge that no oral statement of any person shall modify or
otherwise change, or affect the terms, conditions or specifications stated in the resulting contract. All change orders
requests shall be made in writing by the Contractor for review by the Contract Administrator for the City of Port
Orange. No work shall be performed as set forth in the change order until the Contractor receives an executed
Purchase Order for the requested change.

I acknowledge the following statement regarding Change Orders to the awarded Contract:

           “The Successful Contractor is responsible for giving the City of Port Orange, prior to the Contract
           expiration date, at least forty-five (45) calendar days’ advance notice for any anticipated changes
           in price greater than $25,000.00, time and/or scope of the awarded Contract. The Contractor shall
           not continue to provide services past the Contract expiration date unless approved by a written
           Change Order Notice from the City.”

                          *****************************************

                                                                                     ____________________________________
                                                                                     Name of Business

                                                                                     By: ________________________________
                                                                                     Printed Name: _______________________
                                                                                     Title: ______________________________
STATE OF _____________________
COUNTY OF _______________________

Sworn to (or affirmed) and subscribed before me this ____ day of _________________, 20___, by
___________________________________________, as ______________________________________ of
            (NAME)                                                         (TITLE)
________________________________________________________ and who:
                        (NAME OF ORGANIZATION)


[Notary: Please select one]
□ is personally known to me; or
□ has produced _______________________ as identification.

                                                                                     ____________________________________
                                                                                     Notary Public, State of ________________
                                                                            Printed, typed or stamped name, commission and expiration:
                                           This document must be completed and returned with your Submittal

                                     RFP #20-02 Utility Billing Software                                               Page 70 of 78
FORM 9.4 – DRUG FREE PREFERENCE STATEMENT

IDENTICAL TIE BIDS - Preference shall be given to businesses with drug-free workplace programs. Whenever two or
more bids, proposals, statements, or replies that are equal with respect to price, quality, and service are received by
the city for the procurement of commodities or contractual services, a bid received from a business that certifies
that it has implemented a drug-free workplace program shall be given preference in the award process. Established
procedures for processing tie bids will be followed if none of the tied vendors have a drug-free workplace program.
In order to have a drug-free workplace program, a business shall:
1. Publish a statement notifying employees that the unlawful manufacture, distribution, dispensing, possession,
     or use of a controlled substance is prohibited in the workplace and specifying the actions that will be taken
     against employees for violations of such prohibition.

2.   Inform employees about the dangers of drug abuse in the workplace, the business's policy of maintaining a
     drug-free workplace, any available drug counseling, rehabilitation and employee assistance programs, and the
     penalties that may be imposed upon employees for drug abuse violations.

3.   Give each employee engaged in providing the commodities or contractual services that are under bid a copy of
     the statement specified in subsection (1).

4.   In the statement specified in subsection (1), notify the employees that, as a condition of working on the
     commodities or contractual services that are under bid, the employee will abide by the terms of the statement
     and will notify the employer of any conviction of, or plea of guilty or nolo contendere to, any violation of chapter
     893 or of any controlled substance law of the United States or any state, for a violation occurring in the
     workplace no later than five (5) days after such conviction.

5.   Impose a sanction on or require the satisfactory participation in a drug abuse assistance or rehabilitation
     program if such is available in the employee's community, by any employee who is so convicted.

6.   Make a good faith effort to continue to maintain a drug-free workplace through implementation of Section
     287.087, Florida Statutes.

As an authorized representative of the firm, I certify that this firm complies fully with the above
requirements.

                                                                                 ____________________________________
                                                                                 Name of Business

                                                                                 By: ________________________________
                                                                                 Printed Name: _______________________
                                                                                 Title: ______________________________
STATE OF _____________________
COUNTY OF _______________________

Sworn to (or affirmed) and subscribed before me this ____ day of _________________, 20___, by
___________________________________________, as ______________________________________ of
            (NAME)                                                 (TITLE)
________________________________________________________ and who:
                        (NAME OF ORGANIZATION)


[Notary: Please select one]
□ is personally known to me; or
□ has produced _______________________ as identification.
                                                                                 ____________________________________
                                                                                 Notary Public, State of ________________
This document must be completed and returned with your Submittal         Printed, typed or stamped name, commission and expiration:


                                     RFP #20-02 Utility Billing Software                                           Page 71 of 78
FORM 9.5 – SWORN STATEMENT UNDER § 287.133(3)(A), FLORIDA STATUTES, ON PUBLIC ENTITY CRIMES
 (To be signed in the presence of notary public or other officer authorized to administer oaths.)

Before me, the undersigned Authority, personally appeared affiant                                    , who, being by me first duly sworn,
made the following statement:

1.   The business address of _____________________________________________________ (name of Offeror or business) is
     _______________________________________________________________________________.

2.   My relationship to ____________________________________________ (name of Offeror                                  or    business)   is
     _______________________ (relationship such as sole proprietor, partner, president, vice president).

3.   I understand that a public entity crime as defined in Section 287.133 of the Florida Statutes includes a violation of any state
     or federal law by a person with respect to and directly related to the transaction of business with any public entity in Florida
     or with an agency or political subdivision of any other state or with the United States, including, but not limited to, any
     proposal or contract for goods or services to be provided to any public entity or such an agency or political subdivision and
     involving antitrust, fraud, theft, bribery, collusion, racketeering, conspiracy or material misrepresentation.

4.   I understand that "convicted" or "conviction" is defined by the Florida Statutes to mean a finding of guilt or a conviction of
     a public entity crime, with or without an adjudication of guilt, in any federal or state trial court of record relating to charges
     brought by indictment or information after July 1, 1989, as a result of a jury verdict, non‐jury trial, or entry of a plea of guilt
     or nolo contendere.

5.   I understand that "affiliate" is defined by the Florida Statutes to mean (1) a predecessor or successor of a person or a
     corporation convicted of a public entity crime, or (2) an entity under the control of any natural person who is active in the
     management of the entity and who has been convicted of a public entity crime, or (3) those officers, directors, executives,
     partners, shareholders, employees, members, and agents who are active in the management of an affiliate, or (4) a person
     or corporation who knowingly entered into a joint venture with a person who has been convicted of a public entity crime in
     Florida during the preceding 36 months.

6.   Neither the Offeror or contractor, nor any officer, director, executive, partner, shareholder, employee, member or agent
     who is active in the management of the Offeror or contractor, nor any affiliate of the Offeror or contractor has been
     convicted of a public entity crime subsequent to July 1, 1989. (Draw a line through paragraph 6 if paragraph 7 below applies.)

7.   There has been a conviction of a public entity crime by the Offeror or contractor, or an officer, director, executive, partner,
     shareholder, employee, member or agent of the Offeror or contractor who is active in the management of the Offeror or
     contractor or an affiliate of the Offeror or contractor. A determination has been made pursuant to Section 287.133(3) by
     order of the Division of Administrative Hearings that it is not in the public interest for the name of the convicted person or
     affiliate to appear on the convicted vendor list.       The name of the convicted person or affiliate is
     ______________________________________. A copy of the order of the Division of Administrative Hearings is attached
     to this statement. (Draw a line through paragraph 7 if paragraph 6 above applies.)

                                                                                         ____________________________________
                                                                                         Name of Business

                                                                                         By: ________________________________
                                                                                         Printed Name: _______________________
                                                                                         Title: ______________________________
STATE OF _____________________
COUNTY OF _______________________

Sworn to (or affirmed) and subscribed before me this ____ day of _________________, 20___, by
___________________________________________, as ______________________________________________ of
________________________________________________________ and who:
[Notary: Please select one]
□ is personally known to me; or
□ has produced _______________________ as identification.
                                                                                         ____________________________________
                                                                                         Notary Public, State of ________________
This document must be completed and returned with your Submittal               Printed, typed or stamped name, commission and expiration:

                                     RFP #20-02 Utility Billing Software                                                    Page 72 of 78
FORM 9.6 – ANTI-COLLUSION FORM

ANTI-COLLUSION STATEMENT PROPOSAL FORM:

By signing this form, the Vendor agrees that this Proposal is made without any other understanding,
agreement, or connection with any person, corporation, or firm submitting a proposal for the same
purpose and that the proposal is in all respects fair and without collusion or fraud.

SIGN in ink in the space provided below. Unsigned Proposals will be considered incomplete, and will be
disqualified, and rejected.

IT IS AGREED BY THE UNDERSIGNED VENDOR THAT THE SIGNING AND DELIVERY OF THE PROPOSAL
REPRESENTS THE VENDORS ACCEPTANCE OF THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF THE FOREGOING
SPECIFICATIONS, CONTRACT AND PROVISIONS, AND IF AWARDED, THIS CONTRACT WILL REPRESENT THE
AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE VENDOR AND THE CITY OF PORT ORANGE.

NAME OF FIRM:

SIGNED BY: _______________________________________________________________________
            (MUST BE SIGNED BY A COMPANY OFFICER OR AUTHORIZED AGENT)

PRINTED SIGNATURE: _________________________________________________________________

TITLE: ___________________________________________________________________________

ADDRESS: ________________________________________________________________________

CITY: ______________________________              STATE: _____________ ZIP CODE: ____________

TELEPHONE: _____________________________                        FAX: ________________________________

COMPLETION TIME: _______________________________________________________________

F.E.I.N. NUMBER: ______________________________________________________________________

NO Proposal may be withdrawn for a period of ninety (90) days subsequent to the submittal of the
Proposals, without the consent of the City of Port Orange.

NO PROPOSAL (REASON): _______________________________________________________________




                    This document must be completed and returned with your Submittal


                          RFP #20-02 Utility Billing Software                              Page 73 of 78
                FORM 9.7 – LOCAL BUSINESS AFFIDAVIT OF ELIGIBILITY
                                                                 City of Port Orange
                This declaration is executed under penalty of perjury of the laws to the United States and State of Florida
                THIS AFFIDAVIT IS SUBMITTED IN REFERENCE TO THE FOLLOWING SOLICITATION:
                RFSQ/RFP/ITN/BID/CONTRACT/PROJECT # (as applicable): BUSINESS NAME: ________________________________
                CONTACT PERSON/TITLE: _________________________________________________________________________
                MAILING ADDRESS: _____________________________________________________________________________
                CITY-STATE-ZIP: ________________________________________________________________________________
                Length of Time at Address Provided: ________________________________________________________________
                Physical Presence of Business:             □ Headquarters, □ Manufacturing Facility, or                     □ Locally Owned Franchise
                And within Legal Boundaries:                □ The City of Port Orange              □ Volusia County                □ The State of Florida
                FEIN (Federal Employer Identification Number):
                ______________________________________________________BUISINESS STRUCTURE:
                □ Corporation                   □ LLC                  □ Partnership                        □ Sole Proprietorship
                          □ Other (Specify): ________________________________________________________________________
                PHONE NUMBER: ___________                   ____    FAX: _______________________________________
                EMAIL: _______________________________________________________________________________________
                                        **Please attach a valid business tax receipt, or other such documentation**

    ATTESTATION – I understand that:
•    In accordance with City of Port Orange City Code 2-275, local businesses shall have five (5) business days from bid/proposal opening to submit a best and final bid for
    evaluation. To qualify: A Port Orange business initial bid must be within (8%) of the lowest and best responsible bid from a non-Port Orange business; A Volusia County
    business initial bid must be within (5%) of the lowest and best responsible bid from a non-Volusia County business; A State of Florida business initial bid must be within
    (3%) of the lowest and best responsible bid from a non-State of Florida business.
•   A local business must have its headquarters, manufacturing facility, or locally owned franchise located within the legal boundaries of the City of Port Orange, Volusia
    County, or the State of Florida, as indicated herein, for at least twelve (12) months prior to the bid or proposal opening date and a valid business license, issued by the
    corresponding government agency. Post office boxes are not verifiable and shall not be used for the purpose of establishing said physical address. Bidders shall attach to
    this affidavit of eligibility with a bid or proposal, a copy of a valid business tax receipt or such other documentation, to the city’s satisfaction, demonstrating the physical
    business presence of the firm within corresponding local limits.
•   The preference does not apply to goods or services exempted by statute or prohibited by Federal law, State law, or other funding source restrictions.
•   The preference established in this policy does not prohibit the right of the City, or other authorized purchasing authority, to compare quality or fitness for use of supplies,
    materials, equipment and services proposed for purchase and compare qualifications, character, responsibility and fitness of all persons, firms or corporations submitting
    bids or proposals.
    •     The information contained herein may be subject to verification.
•   A vendor who misrepresents the local preference status of its firm in a proposal or bid submitted to the City of Port Orange will lose the privilege to claim local preference
    status and shall lose eligibility to claim local preference for a period of one (1) year. The City Manager may also recommend that the firm be referred for debarment.

                BEFORE ME; the undersigned authority, in and for the State of Florida and the City of Port Orange personally
                appeared _____________________________________ who, after being sworn according to law, stated that he or
                she was authorized to represent ______________________ and to execute this affidavit on behalf of the said
                Business Entity and attests, under penalty of perjury, to the above.
                SWORN AND SUBSCRIBED BEFORE ME

                __________________________________________                                       NOTARY SEAL
                SIGNATURE OF NOTARY PUBLIC
                THIS_________DAY OF_________________, 20___
                My Commission Expires: ______________________

                __________________________________________
                SIGNATURE OF AFFIANT                DATE

                __________________________________________
                PRINTED NAME OF AFFIANT / TITLE

                __________________________________________
                COMPANY           This document must be completed and returned with your Submittal
                                                       RFP #20-02 Utility Billing Software                                                          Page 74 of 78
FORM 9.8 – PROFESSIONAL REFERENCES FOR PREVIOUS EXPERIENCE

The Vendor proposes that he/she is qualified to perform the referenced work and has successfully done
so on recent projects similar in nature and size. The City reserves the right to check references and
confirm information provided herein.

Please provide three (3) current and correct references from clients for similar services.
(Do not include the City of Port Orange)
1. Company Name: ______________________________________________________________
Contact Person: _________________________________________________________________
City, State: ________________________________________________________________________
Telephone Number: _________________________________________________________________
Email Address: ________________________________________________________________________
Description of goods or
Services provided: _________________________________________________________________
Contract Amount: _________________________________________________________________
Start/End Date of Contract: ___________________________________________________________
2. Company Name: _________________________________________________________________
Contact Person: _________________________________________________________________
City, State: ________________________________________________________________________
Telephone Number: _________________________________________________________________
Email Address: ________________________________________________________________________
Description of goods or
Services provided: _________________________________________________________________
Contract Amount: _________________________________________________________________
Start/End Date of Contract: ___________________________________________________________
3. Company Name: _________________________________________________________________
Contact Person: _________________________________________________________________
City, State: ________________________________________________________________________
Telephone Number: _________________________________________________________________
Email Address: ________________________________________________________________________
Description of goods or
Services provided: _________________________________________________________________
Contract Amount: _________________________________________________________________
Start/End Date of Contract: ___________________________________________________________




                    This document must be completed and returned with your Submittal



                          RFP #20-02 Utility Billing Software                            Page 75 of 78
           (Form 9.8 – Professional References for Previous Experience Page 2)

           LISTING OF PREVIOUS EXPERIENCE
           Commercial Client List
           The bidder proposes that he/she is qualified to perform the referenced work and has successfully done
           so on recent projects similar in nature and size. A minimum of three (3) projects must be listed below.
           The Owner reserves the right to check references and confirm information provided herein.
           List all clients to whom you currently provide or have in the past provided equal or similar to those
           required under the City’s contract and as outlined in this bid package. A minimum of three (3) projects
           shall be listed below in order to bid on this contract. The Owner reserves the right to check references
           and confirm information provided herein.


                                                                      Number of years’   Description of service
    Contact Name          Phone        Current Client? Y or N
                                                                      service provided
1




2




3




                               This document must be completed and returned with your Submittal

                                      RFP #20-02 Utility Billing Software                                 Page 76 of 78
ATTACHMENT 1 – PROPOSAL FORM



                                             "ATTACHMENT 1" SCHEDULE OF UNIT PRICING
                                                                PROPOSAL FORM
                                                             CITY OF PORT ORANGE
                                                                     RFP# 20-02
                                                          UTILITY BILLING SOFTWARE
                     Completed Attachment 1 Bid Proposal form MUST be included with Bid Submission
                                 Instruction to save Attachment from DemandStar website:
  Perform "File Save As" and save spreadsheet to your computer. Fill in pricing in highlighted cells, preferably electronically.

                     Bidders are required to complete all fields shaded in green. All other fields will be automatically calculated.
                                                                                                                       NAME OF BUSINESS:
                                                                                                                       CONTACT PERSON:
                                                                                                                       EMAIL ADDRESS:
                                                                                                                       AUTHORIZED NAME:
                                                                                                                       AUTHORIZED SIGNATURE:
                                                                    PROPOSAL
                                                                                                                                                           E
Item No                                              Description                                                                   Unit Price              X
                                                                                                                                                           T
                                                        GENERAL
   1                                        COST PER SCOPE OF SERVICES                                                                             $0.00




          Shall warrant all materials, labor and workmanship for the minimum period of "Years" _______                          Enter Years here




                         This document must be completed and returned with your Submittal




                                    RFP #20-02 Utility Billing Software                                                                  Page 77 of 78
         End of Solicitation Documents




RFP #20-02 Utility Billing Software      Page 78 of 78
