                                                                            Date:         11 February 2020
                                                                            Reference:    RFP 2020/001

                                        Request for proposals (RFP 2020/001)

     System Design and Implementation for intelligent Business Process Management System for
     Accreditation Process 2.0

1. Background

     1.1   The Green Climate Fund (the “GCF”, or the “Fund”) was established with the purpose of making a
           significant and ambitious contribution to the global efforts towards attaining the goals set by the
           international community to combat climate change. In the context of sustainable development, the Fund
           will promote a paradigm shift towards low-emission and climate-resilient development pathways by
           providing support to developing countries to limit or reduce their greenhouse gas emissions and to adapt
           to the impacts of climate change. The Fund’s headquarters are located in Songdo, Incheon City, Republic
           of Korea.

     1.2   The GCF was designated as an operating entity of the financial mechanism of the United Nations
           Framework Convention on Climate Change (“UNFCCC”). It is governed and supervised by a Board that
           has responsibility for funding decisions pursuant to the Governing Instrument for the Green Climate Fund
           (the “Governing Instrument”). It is supported by an independent Secretariat, accountable to the Board,
           having management capabilities to execute day-to-day operations of the GCF, providing administrative,
           legal and financial expertise.


2. Invitation

     2.1   Through this request for proposals (“RFP”), the GCF is seeking to contract a qualified, reputable and
           experienced Firm to provide design and implementation for intelligent Business Process Management
           System for Accreditation Process 2.0. The terms of reference included in Annex 1 provides the details
           of the assignment and expected deliverables.

     2.2   Proposals must be submitted to the GCF no later than 11 March at 17:00 hrs (time) Korean time.


     2.3   The RFP includes the following annexes:

      Annex 1                Terms of Reference
      Annex 2                Requirement for Firm’s Proposals
      Annex 3                Evaluation Criteria
      Annex 4                Company Profile Form
      Annex 5                Acknowledgement Letter
      Annex 6                Timeline
      Annex 7                Model Contract

     2.4   The terms set forth in this RFP, including all the annexes listed above, will form part of any contract,
           should the GCF accept your proposal. Any such contract will require compliance with all factual
           statements and representations made in the proposal, subject to any modifications agreed to by the GCF
           in the context of any negotiations entered into it.
     2.5   The GCF may, at its discretion, cancel the requirement in part or in whole. It also reserves the right to
           accept or reject any proposal and to annul the selection process and reject all proposals at any time prior
           to selection, without thereby incurring any liability to proposers/firms.


                                                                                                        Page 1 of 43
         2.6  Proposers may withdraw their proposal after submission provided that written notice of withdrawal is
              received by the GCF prior to the deadline prescribed for submission of proposals. No proposal may be
              modified subsequent to the deadline for submission of proposals. No proposal may be withdrawn in the
              interval between the deadline for submission of proposals and the expiration of the period of proposal
              validity.
         2.7 All proposals shall remain valid and open for acceptance for a period of 90 calendar days after the
              deadline for submission of proposals. A proposal valid for a shorter period may be rejected. In
              exceptional circumstances, the GCF may solicit the proposer’s consent to an extension of the period of
              validity. The request and the responses thereto shall be made in writing.
         2.8 Effective with the release of this solicitation, all communications relating to this RFP must be directed
              only to the Head of Procurement by email at procurement@gcfund.org. Proposers must not communicate
              with any other personnel of the GCF regarding this RFP.
         2.9 This RFP is issued under the GCF Administrative Guidelines on Procurement 1. Information regarding
              the guidelines can be found at
             http://www.greenclimate.fund/documents/20182/574763/GCF_policy_-
             _Administrative_Guidelines_on_Procurement.pdf/b767d68e-f8b7-46d1-a18c-b6541f3dc010



3. Joint Venture, Consortium or Association
     3.1 If the Proposer is a group of legal entities that will form or have formed a joint venture, consortium or
         association at the time of the submission of the Proposal, they shall confirm in their Proposal that:

                 (i) they have designated one party to act as a lead entity, duly vested with authority to legally bind the
                      members of the joint venture jointly and severally,
                (ii) if they are awarded the contract, the contract shall be entered into, by and between GCF and the
                      designated lead entity, who shall be acting for and on behalf of all the member entities comprising
                      the joint venture.

     3.2 After the Proposal has been submitted to GCF, the lead entity identified to represent the joint venture shall
         not be altered without the prior written consent of the GCF. Furthermore, neither the lead entity nor the
         member entities of the joint venture can submit another proposal:

                a) either in its own capacity; nor
                b) as a lead entity or a member entity for another joint venture submitting another Proposal.

     3.3        The description of the organization of the joint venture/consortium/association must clearly define the
                expected role of each of the entity in the joint venture in delivering the requirements of the RFP, both
                in the Proposal and the Joint Venture Agreement. All entities that comprise the joint venture shall be
                subject to the eligibility and qualification assessment by GCF.

     3.4        Where a joint venture is presenting its track record and experience in a similar undertaking as those
                required in the RFP, it should present such information in the following manner:

                a) Those that were undertaken together by the joint venture; and
                b) Those that were undertaken by the individual entities of the joint venture expected to be involved in
                the performance of the services defined in the RFP.

     3.5        Previous contracts completed by individual experts working privately but who are permanently or
                were temporarily associated with any of the member firms cannot be claimed as the experience of the
                joint venture or those of its members, but should only be claimed by the individual experts themselves
                in their presentation of their individual credentials.

     1   Annex II “Corporate Procurement Guidelines on the Use of Consultants”
                                                                                                            Page 2 of 43
      3.6         If a joint venture’s Proposal is determined by the GCF as the most responsive Proposal that offers the
                  best value for money, the GCF shall award the contract to the joint venture, in the name of its
                  designated lead entity. The lead entity shall sign the contract for and on behalf of all other member
                  entities.



4. Request for Clarification of RFP Documents
     4.1 A prospective proposer requiring any clarification of the solicitation documents may notify the GCF in
           writing to the email address procurement@gcfund.org by the specified date and time mentioned in Annex
           6. The subject line of the email must have the reference number and title of the RFP i.e. 2020/001 –
           intelligent Business Process Management System for Accreditation Process 2.0. The GCF will
           respond in writing to any request for clarification of the solicitation documents that it receives by the due
           date published in Annex 6. Written copies of the GCF response (including an explanation of the query
           but without identifying the source of inquiry) will be posted on the GCF website and/or communicated
           via email.

5. Amendments to RFP Documents
     5.1 At any time prior to the deadline for submission of proposals, the GCF may, for any reason, whether at
         its own initiative or in response to a clarification requested by a prospective proposer, modify the RFP
         documents by amendment. The amendments will also be posted on the GCF website and/or
         communicated via email.
     5.2 In order to allow prospective proposers reasonable time in which to take the amendment into account in
         preparing their proposals, the GCF may, at its sole discretion, extend the deadline for the submission of
         proposal.

6. Language of Proposals
     6.1 The proposals prepared by the proposer and all correspondence and documents relating to the proposal
          exchanged by the proposer and the GCF, shall be written in English. Supporting documents and printed
          literature furnished by the proposer may be in another language provided they are accompanied by an
          appropriate translation of all relevant passages in English. In any such case, for interpretation of the
          proposal, the translation shall prevail. The sole responsibility for translation and the accuracy thereof
          shall be the responsibility of the proposer.


7. Submission of Proposals
     7.1 Format and form of submission of bids: Bidders are requested to send a Bid preferably 2 through the
           GCF Supplier portal at https://gcf.supplier.ariba.com (a supplier manual can be found on the GCF
           website https://www.greenclimate.fund/who-we-are/procurement as an attachment under this RFP) or
           via email to procurement@gcfund.org, and copied to: mkishi@gcfund.org.


             i)   Submission through the Supplier Portal (SAP Ariba)
                  1. Open https://gcf.supplier.ariba.com/
                  2. Click Register Now
                  3. Fill in Company Information, Fill in User account information and details under ‘Tell us more
                     about your business’
                  4. Check ‘I have read and agree to the Terms of Use and ‘I have read and agree to the SAP Ariba
                     Privacy Statement’ then click ‘Register’
                  5. Check your email and click the activation link.

      2
          Suppliers shall note that GCF will be phasing out e-mail submission in the near future, therefore suppliers are
           encouraged to register and submit their Bid/Proposal through the GCF Supplier portal (SAP Ariba)
                                                                                                                     Page 3 of 43
            6. Fill in additional information required, click Save and Close.
            7. Your company information will be submitted to GCF and will be reviewed and approved. Once
                 you register, please send an email to procurement@gcfund.org with the RFP number and title as
                 the email reference and confirm that you are interested in submitting a bid. You will then be
                 invited to participate in the RFP. You will receive the RFP event notification email from the Green
                 Climate Fund with a link to access the RFP. This link can be used only once. If you require to
                 access the portal after you have activated the link, you can log in on https://gcf.supplier.ariba.com
                 with your user name and password.
            8. Review Prerequisites and Click ‘I accept the terms of this agreement’
            9. Open the Technical Section of the RFP section and download the RFP document and technical
                 proposal submission forms
            10. Open the Financial Section of the RFP and download the financial bid submission forms
            11. When ready to submit your bid, upload the technical bid under the TECHNICAL section and the
                 financial bid under the FINANCIAL section. Please do not enter or upload any financial
                 information under the TECHNICAL section.
            12. Click ‘Submit Entire Response’ to submit bid.
         (For detailed instructions on how to access and submit a bid, see the supplier manual)

         ii)      Submission via email
               Two separate files (technical and financial bids) should be attached to the email as below.

               The Technical file should be named as follows:
                      RFP 2020/S/001 – TECHNICAL PROPOSAL - (name of proposer)

               The financial file should be named as follows:
                       RFP 2020/S/001 – FINANCIAL PROPOSAL - (name of proposer).

               The subject line of the email should be as follows:
                      RFP 2020/S/001 – design and implementation for iBPMS (name of proposer).

      7.2      The Financial Proposal MUST be password protected. The authorized procurement officer will contact
               the bidders that pass the qualifying technical score for the password to open the Financial Proposal.
               Bidders should NOT send the password to the financial proposal until they are requested to do so by the
               procurement officer. Financial Proposals that are submitted without password protection may be rejected
               for non-compliance. Financial Proposals that are submitted without password protection may be rejected
               for non-compliance.

      7.3      All prospective proposers are kindly requested to return the completed Acknowledgement Letter of RFP
               receipt (Appendix 5) by the date indicated in Appendix 6, duly signed by an authorized representative,
               via email, advising whether it intends to submit a proposal by the designated closing date/time. Please
               also notify the Procurement Specialist immediately if any part of this RFP is missing and/or illegible.

8. Late proposals
     8.1 Any proposals received by the GCF after the deadline for submission of proposals prescribed in Annex
           6 of this document may be rejected.

9. Opening of Technical Proposals
     9.1 Technical Proposals will be opened on the date indicated in Annex 6. The purpose of this public opening
           is to record the names of proposers having submitted proposals by the due date and time. Only technical
           proposals will be opened at the public opening. The financial proposals will not be opened. Proposers




                                                                                                         Page 4 of 43
             submitting proposals are welcome to send one (1) representative, with proper authorization from their
             company, to observe the opening and recording of proposals received.

10. Opening of Financial Proposals
      10.1 GCF shall notify in writing those Proposers that have achieved the minimum qualifying technical score
            and request for passwords of the Financial Proposals.

11. Corrupt, Fraudulent, Coercive, Collusive and other Prohibited Practices.
      11.1 The GCF requires that all GCF staff, proposers/bidders, suppliers, service providers and any other person
            or entity involved in GCF-related activities observe the highest standard of ethics during the procurement
            and execution of all contracts. The GCF may reject any proposal put forward by proposers, or where
            applicable, terminate their contract, if it is determined that they have engaged in corrupt, fraudulent,
            coercive, collusive or other prohibited practices.

12. Conflict of Interest
      12.1 In their proposal, proposers must (i) confirm that, based on their current best knowledge, there are no
             real or potential conflicts of interest involved in rendering Services for the GCF, and (ii) set out their
             policy on dealing with conflicts of interest should these arise.

13. Confidentiality
     13.1 Information relating to the evaluation of proposals and recommendations concerning selection of Firms
     will not be disclosed to Firms that submitted proposals.




                                                                                                         Page 5 of 43
Annex I – Terms of Reference: Green Climate Fund’s intelligent Business Process
Management System for Accreditation Process 2.0

I.    Background and Objective


1.1   Background: The Green Climate Fund (GCF) aims to make a significant and ambitious
      contribution for global efforts towards attaining the goals set by the international community to
      combat climate change. It is set to become the main vehicle for securing and distributing finance
      and its resources supporting a range of activities that reduce emissions or foster resilience. The
      Fund channelizes its finance to the climate change related projects through a network of entities
      that are accredited to the GCF through a rigorous accreditation process.

      GCF plays a key role in exchanging sensitive information while channelling new, additional,
      adequate and predictable financial resources to developing countries and catalyses climate
      finance, both public and private, at the international and national levels. The standard security
      operational procedure, as well as the security considerations of ICT systems, especially security
      and reliability of the fund’s file repository regime is critical on playing this important role.

      The Fund’s current Online Accreditation System (OAS) 1.0, has been handling its accreditation
      process for entities was developed in very early days of the Fund with the tweaks and fixes to
      handle ever-changing business requirements. However, to significantly improve and enhance the
      efficiencies and transparency required to achieve the Fund’s strategic objectives, the Fund sees of
      a new system to replace the current one, which tentatively is named as OAS 2.0.


1.2   Objective: The Fund would like to develop a new system that will: 1) significantly improve the
      current workflow and also cover the wider scope of the entire accreditation process, including
      pre-accreditation and re-accreditation, 2) seamlessly interface to/integration with other existing
      systems such as the iPMS and financial system, 3) provide further visibility of overall status of the
      process in dashboards and reports to align GCF strategic goal of improving efficiency and
      transparency.

      During the ICT’s consultation with the industry’s leading research and advisory firms including
      Gartner and Forrester, and communications to peer institutions such as United Nations, World
      Food Programme, Asian Development Bank, it is identified that the approach to the project should
      neither be 1) out-of-box SaaS (Solution as a Service) products, as the accreditation process is
      mostly unique based on the Fund’s mandates and guidelines on how we handle the accreditation,
      nor 2) complete custom development, as the process, with some similarity of the business process
      elements used by other financial institutions’ eligibility, evaluation or underwriting process, can
      still be accommodated by the modern business process management platforms, called intelligent
      Business Process Management System. (iBPMS)

      The project thus will be characterized as enterprise-level in-depth configuration of industry
      leading iBPMS platform to provide the best possible user experience for all stakeholders of the




                                                                                             Page 6 of 43
       Fund’s accreditation business process, from online submission of the application, review and
       approval, to re-accreditation and everything in between.

II.    Scope and Technical Requirements for the Project


2.1    Scope Summary: iBPMS platform licenses and implementation professional services required
       for 1) developing Online Accreditation System 2.0, and 2) securing the cutting-edge capacity for
       automating other core business processes based on the procured iBPMS platform.


2.2    Business Process Requirements: For illustrative diagram and business requirements, refer to
       the Annex I-A. Illustrative Accreditation Business Process Maps and Detailed Requirements at
       the end of this Annex document. Below are the key requirements summary that the proposed
       system should fully comply.

                                                                  Details
  Phase           Use-case
 Pre-      Request for eligibility   Applicants creates an account, uploading required documents
 accredi   for application           for the Secretariat to check eligibility for application
 tation
 Accred    Applicant raises          Applicants fill-in the application form. The form is attachment
 itation   accreditation request     heavy where almost all questions requires documented
                                     evidence of the response to be uploaded.

           Application received      The secretariat reviews the application and check if the
           and preliminary           application is complete enough to ask the applicant for
           checks                    application fees.

           Issuance of invoice of    Systemic ways to inform finance team the invoice details and be
           accreditation fees and    informed by finance team that the payment is successfully
           check if fees are paid    received

           Secretariat Review        Multiple rounds of application sent-back and re-submission
           (Stage I)                 stages expected with clarification questions from the Secretariat
                                     and response from applicants.

                                     The review stage involves collecting review comments from
                                     multiple reviewers simultaneously. The system requires to
                                     handle parallel review workflow (review requested, review
                                     comments provisioning, review completed) with proper email
                                     alerts and other triggers, and at the end of the review process,
                                     the task manager should be able to consolidate the review
                                     comments and send the final version to the applicants.

           Consulting firms          Consulting firms also make review comments. The individuals
           checking                  from the firm also needs to easily access the form and
           completeness (Stage       documents and provide necessary comments to be responded
           I)                        by applicants




                                                                                                   Page 7 of 43
            Accreditation Panel     Similar back and forth to be done with expert panel and the
            review (Stage II)       applicant. The secretariat needs to monitor the process and
                                    progress of this phase.

            Board Decision (Stage   The system captures the progress of the board decision as a
            II)                     separate workflow stage

            Legal Arrangement       The system captures the progress of the legal arrangement as a
            (Stage III)             separate workflow stage and also captures the condition
                                    progress related to execution and effectiveness of the
                                    agreement

Post-       Annual self-            Applicants review the accreditation application and perform
Accred      assessment by AEs       self-assessment
itation
            Mid-term reviews        The secretariat reviews the status of accredited entity at the
                                    middle of the accreditation contract

            Re-accreditation        At the end of the contracted period, the applicant again applies
                                    for re-accreditation, based on the previous application and all
                                    the attachment (the changes from the previous interaction to
                                    be uploaded to the system for accreditation process)


2.3       iBPMS Platform Technical Capability Requirements

 Requirements                                      Details
Interaction      Be able to orchestrate multiple types of activities and interactions at
Management       runtime to support the work that people, systems and "things" do in
                 order to produce specific business outcomes.
                 Particularly entry, storage and retrieval of the structured information
                 about the entities applying for accreditation, beyond a simple
                 user/applicant management scheme of registration process.
                 The platform should be able to manage the workflow involving
                 sequential and parallel workflow, including accreditation review
                 process.
High-            The platform includes development tools for both citizen and IT
productivity app developers. The platform allows developers to quickly and easily build a
authoring        process-centric application. Applications built on the platform use a
                 metadata model to manage the complete life cycle of business
                 processes.
Monitoring and The platform continuously tracks conditions in processes, cases and
business         other behaviors in near real time to provide process intelligence.
alignment        The platform includes components that display information on
                 dashboards, send notifications (including alerts) or trigger automatic
                 responses in applications, processes or devices.
                 The platform provides tools for managers and executives to track
                 summary-level results against high-level operational, tactical or strategic
                 business objectives.


                                                                                                     Page 8 of 43
Rules and        The platform provides software facilities such as rule engines,
Decision         recommendation engines or decision management engines that provide
Management       guidance for making human or automated decisions according to
                 business directives or policy statements.
AI based         The platform is capable to provide AI-based analytic services that
Analytics        supports orchestration for making smarter decisions about the flow
                 progress of work, or within an activity step to improve other aspects of
                 the application.
AI based RPA     Whenever possible, AI/ML capability provides further insights to the
(Robotic         proess discovery, optimization, improvement and decision support,
Process          while the platform should feature native RPA capabilities to be utilized
Automation)      along with BPM to handle short-term process automation to increase
capabilities     efficiencies of the business process
Interoperability RestAPI endpoints for further integration to other systems, along with
                 capability of integrating external data source in similar way to the
                 internal data source while designing the business process.
Process          The platform provides capabilities that accelerate the time to discover
Discovery and    and optimize behaviors (for example, processes, tasks, policies) needed
Optimization     to improve business outcomes, including analyzing past execution
                 history or simulation of proposed behaviors.
Context and      The platform maintains a log of process events, decisions,
behavior history collaborations, and other kinds of context data (from external
                 applications and databases) to be utilized in dynamic and
                 improvisational interactions taking place during the business process
                 and also for audit purposes.
Out-of-box       Without extensive html/css make-over efforts, the out-of-box interface
mobile-ready,    already is user-friendly and modern enough to launch the application.
responsive       At least the dashboard/reporting part of the app should be
modern UI        approachable via mobile devices
Cloud-first      Platform should show strong evidence that the vendor is considering
architecture     cloud as the primary option and actively leverage cloud-native
                 technology, instead of simply replicating the same architecture to cloud
                 from its on-premise offerings
Single Sign-On   Supports Okta, SAML2/OpenID SSO authentication for both business
                 users and customers use-cases
Document         Platform should be able to handle attached documents and
Management       unstructured data with version control, intelligent search and sort, and
Capabilities     other document management capabilities to deal with document-heavy
                 OAS 2.0 form requirements
Platform         Proven reference sites utilizing the platform to handle the business
References       process, preferably in nonprofit sector, financial sector or international
                 institutions, comparable to the Fund
Partner          Robust partner ecosystem supporting the implementation and
Ecosystem        operation of the platform, along with third-party apps and components
                 marketplace and strong customer success stories and evidances
Future Proof     Platform has proven record of evaluation against foreseeable additional
Technology       use-cases including intelligent process centric applications, continuous

                                                                                        Page 9 of 43
                      process improvement, business transformation, digitized process, case
                      management.

2.4   Implementation: Professional Service Requirements

 Requirements                                            Details
Subject Matter        Implementation project references comparable to the Fund (at least 5
Experience            recent project references in details)
Agile Project         Capability of incorporating agile methodologies into the project
Management            management to deal with on-going changes of the business
                      requirements of the Fund
Business              Capability and proven record of guiding the client to further identify and
Requirements          discover business requirements and translate the requirements
Discovery             seamlessly into technical requirements for the system configuration
Migration             Capability of analyzing the existing OAS 1.0 data to recommend the
                      migration strategies and options, and capability of executing migration
                      activities in the most efficient and effective manner
Integration           Capability of analyzing relevant other systems to recommend the
                      integration strategy, and capability of working with the client’s
                      development team to execute any required integration via RestAPI or
                      any other possible options identified
Test                  Capability to provide support for automated testing of the developed
Automation            workflows
Support
Training and          Capability to provide regular support and per-hour based additional
Support               professional services requested to improve and extend the system on-
                      demand basis. Capability to provide both remote and on-site training.

2.5   Required Platform Licenses: The Fund seeks for cloud annual subscription model for the
      platform licenses. In addition to the initially required users for OAS 2.0, per user cost during the
      contracted period should be indicated in the financial proposal.

                                                                 Usage of system
   Named Users          Number of Users
GCF Internal Admin     10                   More than 50 hours per month
Accreditation Panel    10
Consulting Firm 1      20
Consulting Firm 2      20
GCF Non-core           20                   Less than 50 hours per month
Users
GCF Management         20                   Less than 10 hours per month

Accreditation          Per access basis users. Active during accreditation, condition review, yearly-
Applicants             review and reaccreditation processes. Need to have unlimited users or a
                       special model (customer account). Assume 300 Accreditation Cases (or
                       External Users) per year accessing the system sporadically for cost
                       comparison.


                                                                                                 Page 10 of 43
III.   Activities and Deliverables


3.1    Activities: On-site presence expected for at least requirement discovery phase, while the parties
       would seek the most efficient and effective option between on-site work and remote work for
       other phases.




3.2    Timeline: The entire project delivery is expected to be completed within 6 months. As the Fund
       is expecting to have its first re-accreditation case in July 2020, any creative suggestions
       (including agile proto-tying with reduced requirements as a parallel phase) to cater the first few
       re-accreditation cases during the implementation period would be highly appreciated.


3.3    Phase-wise Deliverables

       The table as under lists deliverables from this Work Package.
              Phase                     Deliverables                  GCF Responsibilities
                                     (from Contractor)
        Planning               Project Plan including the      - Review and accept the
                                sections for Scope,                  project plan
                                Scheduling, Resources, Quality - Agree with GCF resource
                                Assurance and                        allocations and project
                                Communications Planning              tolerances and estimates
        Requirements          Requirements analysis             Appointment of project
        discovery              document set                      sponsor, project manager, and
                                                                 technical lead
                                                                 Participation in requirement
                                                                 identification
                                                                 Confirm deliverables
                             
        System Design        - System design document set        Review and provide feedback
                                                                 on the system design
                                                                 documents
                                                                 Confirm deliverables

        Development and      - User Interface, Data Structure,   Review and provide feedback
        unit test              Workflow and Integration          on the configuration
                               Configuration of the system       Assess the feasibility of
                                                                 integration to GCF systems
                                                                 Confirm deliverables
                             - Unit test results
        System and           - SSO integration to OKTA (GCF      Assess the feasibility of
        Integration test       Apps Portal)                      integration to GCF systems
                             - Data integration to iPMS and      Confirm deliverables
                               other GCF systems
                             - Test automation scripts
        Data Migration       - Migrated data in the new          Confirm deliverables
                               system


                                                                                           Page 11 of 43
       User Acceptance      - System Demonstration for         Lead the UAT arrangement
       Test                 User Acceptance
                            - User Training and Manual         Confirm deliverables
       Deployment and       - System in Production             Confirm deliverables
       handover             System Administration
                            Documentation
                            - System Admin Training

IV.   Performance Standard/Acceptance Criteria


4.1   For each phase of this project, deliverables and productivity of works will be measured
      according to the performance / acceptance criteria as in the table under.

             Phase                        Performance / Acceptance Criteria
       Requirements           The reports and document set fully and correctly entails the
       discovery               business needs as expressed by GCF in aspects and areas of
                               business processes
       System Design          The design and architecture conform all the business and
                               technical requirements agreed during the requirements
                               discovery phase
                              The design and architecture conform the industry standards
                              The design and architecture consider future
                               revision/extension/upgrade/migration


       Development and        The form, workflow, data model, user interface, alert/triggers,
       unit test               business rules conform all the technical requirements and
                               conform the system design principles and guidelines.
                              The result of unit test shows that the system captures all the
                               use-case scenarios including foreseeable outlier cases, and the
                               system shows how to handle any potential system error
                               situation
       System and             The system shall be seamlessly integrated to GCF Apps Portal
       integration test        (based on OKTA technology) to provide SSO experience
                              The system, if needed, shall be able to provide different
                               authentication logic for internal and external users
                              The system shall be able to sync the data to and from the
                               Fund’s iPMS (integrated Project Management System) to
                               further integrate the data flow of the Fund climate business
                              The system provides the best-effort interaction to the Fund’s
                               existing accounting system for invoice drafting and payment
                               checking of accreditation fees
                              All end-to-end workflows/processes including the normal
                               paths and alternate paths identified during requirements
                               discovery phase are successfully executable through
                               automated test scripts provided by the implementation
                               partner.
       Data Migration         Based on the migration scope determined during the
                               requirement discovery phase, the existing data (the application
                               form and attachments) shall be migrated to the system


                                                                                         Page 12 of 43
       User Acceptance         The internal user group test and accept the system
       Test                     configuration fulfilling the business requirements
                               The external user group test and accept the system
                                configuration fulfilling the business requirements
                               The system shall be tested to be light and flexible enough to
                                accommodate harsh internet environment of some of the
                                developing countries
       Deployment and          Conduct the pilot re-accreditation process to be successfully
       handover                 initiated and processed using the production environment


4.2   Quality Metrics

      Quality of work and outputs from this Work Package will be measured according to the criteria
      as under.

                Area                            Quality Measurement Criteria
       Project Resources           Project resources showed professionalism through the
                                    whole engagement in the project.
                                   Project resources showed enough skills and experiences
                                    required to perform tasks assigned for the Work
                                    Package.
                                   Project resources demonstrated behaviours that fully
                                    conform to GCF’s code of business conduct and GCF’s
                                    general guidance on work environment management
                                    policies.
                                   Project resources’ fully complied to the guidelines of
                                    usage of GCF’s facilities, system environments, tools,
                                    communication environment and any properties under
                                    the governance of GCF.
       Project Deliverables        All identified project deliverables should meet the
                                    acceptance criteria as specified in the Quality Assurance
                                    Section of the Project Plan.



V.    Service Level Agreement

      In performing and executing this project, it is fully committed by the Contractor that

            The implementation and configuration will be performed to the maximum quality
             desirable implying that all specified deliverables meet the agreed upon acceptance
             criteria as indicated in the Quality Assurance section of the Project Plan

            The overall schedule of the project will be maintained to the designated and agreed upon
             timeline as baselined in the project plan with tolerances indicated therein

            Timely communication and project reporting as per the communication plan (included
             will be made throughout the whole period of this engagement to ensure prevention of




                                                                                           Page 13 of 43
             any problem or issue that may arise through the whole work and at the same time to
             enable proactive enhancement of the quality of the assessment to be performed.

            Support, training and extended professional service options must be included in the
             technical bid with the plans, options and contents, and also in the financial bid with the
             unit price.


VI.   Team Structure

      The project team will be composed of with resources specified as under;

           Role                      Responsibility                       GCF Counterparts
       Project          Responsible for managing and                GCF ICT Project Manager
       Manager           coordinating the overall project.

                        Single point of contact for escalations,
                         billing issues, personnel matters,
                         contract extensions.
       Lead             Responsible for overall technical            GCF Integration and
       Architect         configuration                                Implementation Specialist




                                                                                          Page 14 of 43
Annex I-A. Illustrative Accreditation Business Process Maps and Detailed Requirements

The process maps and requirements below are illustrative and only for the reference purpose, and subject to
change during the business requirement discovery phase.

   I.      Pre-Accreditation




Table I.1. OAS requests review
 OAS requests review
 Objectives                                       1. To achieve online communication,
                                                     instead of emails, for the management of
                                                     workflows of OAS requests;
 Actors                                           Applicant entities and Secretariat
 Activities/Functions                             1. Applicant to submit the requests and
                                                     upload supporting documents as
                                                     required;
                                                  2. Secretariat to review the requests and
                                                     provide feedback to all applicants;


                                                                                            Page 15 of 43
                       3. Secretariat to issue the account to certain
                          applicants only;
                       4. The system to send automatic notification
                          containing login information of the
                          account to both the Secretariat and the
                          applicant entity;
                       5. The system to send automatic
                          notifications in case of any status update;
                          and
                       6. The system to store information of each
                          request being submitted, each round of
                          feedback being provided and each
                          account being issued.
Inputs                 Submission of the applicant entity’s OAS
                       request (and the nomination letter from
                       the NDA if the entity is a direct access
                       entity)
Outputs                1. Generation of OAS accounts
                       2. OAS account login information to
                          applicant entity; and
                       3. Automated notification to the Secretariat
                          and the applicant entity
Triggers               Submission of OAS request
Dependencies           1. NDA nomination letter submitted, if a
                          direct access entity, and acknowledged by
                          the Secretariat
                       2. Sufficient supporting documents
                          submitted by the entity, reviewed and
                          approved by the Secretariat
Data stores/elements   Dates (of submission, feedback provided,
                       issuance, etc)
                       Workflow history
                       (Note: To be added later, as agreed from
                       the previous meeting that we do not need
                       to worry about this item at this stage)




                                                                Page 16 of 43
   II.    Accreditation




Table II.1. Accreditation – application submission
 Accreditation
 Application submission
 Objectives                                   To receive and acknowledge the applicant’s
                                              application
 Actors                                       Applicant entities and the Secretariat
 Activities/Functions                         1. Applicant to submit the accreditation
                                                 application through the system
                                              2. The system to automatically notify the
                                                 Secretariat of the submission
                                              3. The system to automatically acknowledge the
                                                 receipt of the submission to the applicant
                                                 (using the template acknowledgement email
                                                 with tailored information, if possible)
                                              4. The Secretariat to change the status of
                                                 workflow
                                              5. The system to archive the date of submission,
                                                 entity information (name, focal points,
                                                 country, region, public/private, access
                                                 modality, etc), application criteria (size,
                                                 fiduciary and ESS)


                                                                                 Page 17 of 43
 Inputs                                          Filling out the application and uploading the
                                                 supporting documents online as required
 Outputs                                         A complete application by the applicant
                                                 entity
 Triggers                                        Submission of the accreditation application
 Dependencies                                    OAS account
 Data stores/elements                            Date of submission;
                                                 Entity information (name, focal points,
                                                 country, region, public/private, access
                                                 modality, etc);
                                                 Application criteria (size, fiduciary and ESS)

Table II.2. Accreditation – preliminary check
 Accreditation
 Preliminary check
 [Note: the review is done based on the submitted application, but the review comment is
 released via emails]
 Objectives                                      To check on the applicant’s application
                                                 criteria for the purpose of determining the
                                                 accreditation fees and issuing the invoice
 Actors                                          Secretariat and applicant entities
 Activities/Functions                            1. Secretariat to conduct a preliminary check
                                                      on Sections 1 to 3
                                                  Scenario 1: if further information needed
                                                  2. Secretariat to send questions or comments
                                                     to the applicant entity, requesting further
                                                     information;
                                                     [Note: this step is currently done through
                                                     emails, going forward we would like to
                                                     explore the feasibility of doing this on the
                                                     system.]
                                                  3. Applicant to upload further information
                                                     online as response to the Secretariat’s
                                                     questions
                                                  Scenario 2: if complete
                                                  4. Secretariat to inform the applicant entity of
                                                     the invoice preparation and next steps
                                                     through emails
 Inputs                                           Application
 Outputs                                          Sufficient supporting documents for
                                                  application criteria to determine the
                                                  accreditation scope and accreditation fees
 Triggers                                         Submission of application
 Dependencies                                     Submission of application and sufficient
                                                  supporting documents for application
                                                  criteria
 Data stores/elements                             N/A




                                                                                      Page 18 of 43
Table II.3. Accreditation – fees and invoices
 Accreditation
 Fees and invoices
 [Note: there is no online system for this workstream]
 Objectives                                        To prepare invoice template (with tailored
                                                   information and fees) for Finance to issue to
                                                   the applicant entity
 Actors                                            Secretariat (Accreditation and Finance)
 Activities/Functions                              1. Accreditation team to prepare the invoice
                                                      template and send to Finance team
                                                   2. Finance team to generate official invoice and
                                                      issue to the applicant entity
                                                   3. Finance team to monitor and confirm the
                                                      receipt of payment from the applicant entity
                                                   4. Accreditation team to archive the invoice
                                                      and payment information
 Inputs                                            Application criteria
                                                   Invoice template (automatic generation
                                                   from the system if possible)
 Outputs                                           Invoice
 Triggers                                          Sufficient supporting documents for
                                                   application criteria
 Dependencies                                      Sufficient supporting documents for
                                                   application criteria
 Data stores/elements                              Date of invoice preparation
                                                   Date of invoice issuance
                                                   Invoice number
                                                   Amount of fees
                                                   Application criteria
                                                   Date of payment receipt
                                                   Payment amount

Table II.4. Accreditation – Stage I institutional assessment and completeness check
 Accreditation
 Stage I review
 Objectives                                      - Secretariat to review the application Sections
                                                      1 to 7 and release questions to applicant
                                                      entities
                                                  Note: going forward the Secretariat may only
                                                  need to review the application Sections 1 to
                                                  3, pending the Board’s discussion on the
                                                  updated accreditation framework
                                                  -   Applicant entities to review the Secretariat’s
                                                      questions and provide further information,
                                                      allowing the entity to be progressed to Stage
                                                      II (Step 1) review by the Accreditation Panel
 Actors                                           Secretariat (i.e. Administrators and
                                                  Employees), two consultancy firms and
                                                  applicant entities


                                                                                       Page 19 of 43
Activities/Functions   1. Secretariat (Accreditation and Procurement)
                           to prepare and assign Statement of Work
                           (SoW) to consultancy firms and receive
                           countersigned SoW
                           Note: this workstream is done offline
                       2. Secretariat to grant online access to
                           reviewers for applications assigned in the
                           SoW
                       3. Consultancy firms to conduct the review as
                           assigned in the SoW
                       4. Consultancy firms send to the Secretariat
                           review remarks and questions
                           Note: this is done offline in word files offline
                           and communications are through emails;
                           going forward we would like to conduct the
                           review online
                       5. Secretariat to review and conduct quality
                           assurance on the remarks and questions by
                           the consultancy firms
                       6. Secretariat to release the questions to the
                           applicant entity and update the status of the
                           application
                       7. Applicant entity to respond to the questions
                           and upload further information onto the
                           system
                       8. Applicant to resubmit the application
                       9. Secretariat to conduct subsequent rounds of
                           review until the completion (or near
                           completion) of Stage I
                       10. Secretariat to inform applicant entities of
                           completion of Stage I and progress the entity
                           to Stage II (Step 1) review
                       11. Secretariat to inform the Accreditation panel
                           of new entities progressed to Stage I (Step 1)
                           review
                       12. Secretariat to archive relevant information
                           (refer the item below related to data stores)
Inputs                 Application by applicant entities
                       Review remarks by consultancy firms
Outputs                Stage I review (word file and online)
Triggers               Payment of accreditation fees
Dependencies           Countersigned SoW
Data stores/elements   Date of each version and response
                       Timesheet by consultancy firms
                       Time spent by the Secretariat
                       Stage I pipeline dashboard (by region and by
                       status)




                                                              Page 20 of 43
Table II.5. Accreditation – Stage II review by the Accreditation Panel
 Accreditation
 Stage II (Step I) review
 Objectives                                     Accreditation Panel (AP) to review the
                                                application Sections 4 to 7 and release
                                                questions to applicant entities
                                                Applicant entities to review the AP’s
                                                questions and provide further information to
                                                complete Stage II (Step I) pending AP’s
                                                recommendation
 Actors                                         AP, expert consultants to the AP, applicant
                                                entities and the Secretariat (i.e.
                                                Administrators)
 Activities/Functions                           1. Secretariat to grant online access to reviewers
                                                      for applications
                                                  2. AP to conduct the review and send to the
                                                      applicant entity
                                                  3. AP Assistant/Secretariat to update the status
                                                      of workflow
                                                  4. Applicant entity to respond to the questions
                                                      and upload further information onto the
                                                      system
                                                  5. Applicant to resubmit the application
                                                  6. AP Assistant/Secretariat to update the status
                                                      of workflow
                                                  7. AP to conduct subsequent rounds of review
                                                      until the completion of Stage II (Step 1)
                                                  8. AP to place conditions, if there are any, to
                                                      complete Stage II (Step 1)
                                                  9. Secretariat to inform applicant entities of
                                                      completion of Stage II (Step 1) review
                                                  10. Secretariat to archive relevant information
                                                      (refer the item below related to data stores)
 Inputs                                           Application by applicant entities
                                                  Stage I review remarks
 Outputs                                          Stage II (Step 1) review (word file and online)
 Triggers                                         Completion of Stage I
 Dependencies                                     Stage I review remarks
 Data stores/elements                             Date of each version and response
                                                  Timesheet by AP members and experts and
                                                  the Secretariat
                                                  Stage II pipeline dashboard (by region and by
                                                  status)




                                                                                       Page 21 of 43
Table II.6. Accreditation – Stage II (Step 2) Board decision and Stage III legal agreement
 Accreditation
 Stage II (Step II) Board decision
 Note: offline, however, data stores needed as shown below
 Data stores/elements                         Date of accreditation
                                              Decision number
                                              Board meeting
                                              Accreditation type
 Stage III legal agreement
 Note: offline, however, data stores needed as shown below
 Data stores/elements                         Date of AMA signing and AMA
                                              effectiveness

Table II.7. Accreditation conditions
 Accreditation
 Conditions
 [Note: there is no online system for conditions review, but iPMS is used for presenting the
 status of conditions closure]
 Objectives                                        To receive and review supporting
                                                   documents uploaded by the Accredited
                                                   Entities (AEs) to close conditions, pending
                                                   AP’s review and decision
 Actors                                            AP members and experts, AEs and
                                                   Secretariat
 Activities/Functions                              1. AEs to submit supporting documents on the
                                                     system
                                                  2. System to automatically acknowledge the
                                                     receipt
                                                  3. AP to conduct review on the supporting
                                                     documents
                                                  4. AP to decide whether the conditions are
                                                     fulfilled
                                                  5. Secretariat to update the status on the iPMS
 Inputs                                           Stage II (Step 1) AP review remarks
 Outputs                                          Closure of conditions
 Triggers                                         Timeframe of conditions
                                                  AE’s submission of supporting documents to
                                                  close conditions
 Dependencies                                     AE’s supporting documents
 Data stores/elements                             Interlinked with iPMS




                                                                                     Page 22 of 43
   III.   Post-Accreditation (including re-accreditation)




Table III.1. Institutional monitoring and reporting - annual self-assessment
 Institutional monitoring and reporting
 Annual self-assessment
 Objectives                                    To receive and review AEs’ annual self-
                                               assessment
 Actors                                        Secretariat (with AP when needed), AEs
 Activities/Functions                          1. AEs to submit annual self-assessment, being
                                                    able to build their assessment upon the
                                                    original accreditation application
                                                 2. Secretariat to review and check whether
                                                    there are any updates in terms of AEs’
                                                    policies and procedures that impact their
                                                    role as an AE
                                                 3. If substantial updates found, the AP may
                                                    need to review
 Inputs                                          Annual self-assessment template
 Outputs                                         Annual self-assessment review
 Triggers                                        Timeframe on a yearly basis
 Dependencies                                    AE’s original application
 Data stores/elements                            Dates of submission and each version
                                                 Conclusions




                                                                                    Page 23 of 43
Table III.2. Institutional monitoring and reporting – mid-term review
 Institutional monitoring and reporting
 Mid-term review
 Objectives                                     To receive and review AEs’ mid-term
                                                review
 Actors                                         AP (with support of Secretariat), AEs
 Activities/Functions                           1. AEs to submit mid-term review
                                                 2. AP to review and check
 Inputs                                          Mid-term review template
 Outputs                                         Mid-term review
 Triggers                                        Timeframe of year 2.5
 Dependencies                                    AE’s original application
 Data stores/elements                            Dates of submission and each version
                                                 Conclusions

Table III.3 Re-accreditation
 Re-accreditation
 Objectives                                  To receive and review the re-
                                             accreditation applications
 Actors                                      AEs, Secretariat, AP, consultancy firms
                                             and consultants
 Activities/Functions                        1. Same as Table 3.4 and Table 3.5
 Inputs                                      Re-accreditation application template
 Outputs                                     Re-accreditation application review
 Triggers                                    Timeframe: six months prior to the end
                                             of 5-year accreditation period
 Dependencies                                Original application
 Data stores/elements                        Date of each version and response
                                             Timesheet by consultancy firms and the
                                             AP
                                             Time spent by the Secretariat
                                             Re-accreditation pipeline dashboard (by
                                             region and by status)




                                                                                  Page 24 of 43
Annex 2
Requirements for Firms’ Proposals Technical Proposal

The technical proposal will be submitted in a separate file and will address all aspects of the Terms of Reference.
The Technical Proposal shall have all the necessary details in response to the Terms of Reference and the
proposer shall fill in the technical Forms (TECH Forms) which follow in this annex and which must be filled in
accordingly.




                                                                                                   Page 25 of 43
TECH Forms

Form TECH-1: Technical Proposal Submission Form


[Location, Date]

To:     [Name and address of Client]


To whom it may concern:

       We, the undersigned, offer to provide the consulting services for [Insert title of assignment] in
accordance with your Request for Proposal dated [Insert Date] and our Proposal. We are hereby submitting our
Proposal, which includes this Technical Proposal, and a Financial.

        We are submitting our Proposal in association with: [Insert a list with full name and address of each
associated Consultant if submitting as an association]

       We hereby declare that all the information and statements made in this Proposal are true and accept that
any misinterpretation contained in it may lead to our disqualification.

        If negotiations are held during the period of validity of the Proposal, i.e., before the date indicated in
Paragraph Reference 2.6 of the RFP, we undertake to negotiate on the basis of the proposed staff, methodology
and approach. Our Proposal is binding upon us and subject to the modifications resulting from Contract
negotiations.

        We undertake, if our Proposal is accepted, to initiate the consulting services related to the assignment.

        We understand you are not bound to accept any Proposal you receive.

        We remain,

Yours sincerely,

Authorized Signature [In full and initials]:
Name and Title of Signatory:
Name of Firm:
Address:




                                                                                                  Page 26 of 43
Form TECH-2: Firm’s Organization and Experience

A - Organization


 [Provide here a brief (two pages) description of the background and organization of your firm/entity and each
 associate for this assignment.]




                                                                                              Page 27 of 43
B - Experience

[Using the format below, provide information on each assignment for which your firm, and each associate for
this assignment, was legally contracted either individually as a corporate entity or as one of the major companies
within an association, for carrying out consulting services similar to the ones requested under this assignment.
Use not more than 20 pages.]

  Assignment name:                                    Approx. value of the contract (in current US$ or
                                                      Euro):


  Country:                                            Duration of assignment (months):
  Location within country:

  Name of Client:                                     Total No of staff-months of the assignment:


  Address:                                            Approx. value of the services provided by your
                                                      firm under the contract (in current US$ or Euro):

  Start date (month/year):                            No of professional staff-months provided by
  Completion date (month/year):                       associated Consultants:

  Name of associated Consultants, if any:             Name of senior professional staff of your firm
                                                      involved and functions performed (indicate most
                                                      significant profiles such as Project Director/
                                                      Coordinator, Team Leader):



  Narrative description of Project:




  Description of actual services provided by your staff within the assignment:




Firm’s Name:




                                                                                                  Page 28 of 43
Form TECH-3: Comments and Suggestions on the Terms of Reference and on Counterpart Staff and
Facilities to be Provided by the Client

On the Terms of Reference



[Present and justify here any modifications or improvement to the Terms of Reference you are proposing to
improve performance in carrying out the assignment (such as deleting some activity you consider unnecessary,
or adding another, or proposing a different phasing of the activities). Such suggestions should be concise and to
the point, and incorporated in your Proposal.]




                                                                                                 Page 29 of 43
Form TECH-4: Description of Approach, Methodology and Work Plan for Performing the Assignment


 [Technical approach, methodology and work plan are key components of the Technical Proposal. You are
 suggested to present your Technical Proposal (Not more than 40 pages, inclusive of charts and diagrams)
 divided into the following three chapters:

a) Technical Approach and Methodology,
b) Work Plan, and
c) Organization and Staffing,


 a) Technical Approach and Methodology. In this chapter you should explain your understanding of the
 objectives of the assignment, approach to the services, methodology for carrying out the activities and
 obtaining the expected output, and the degree of detail of such output. You should highlight the problems
 being addressed and their importance, and explain the technical approach you would adopt to address them.
 You should also explain the methodologies you propose to adopt and highlight the compatibility of those
 methodologies with the proposed approach.

 b) Work Plan. In this chapter you should propose the main activities of the assignment, their content and
 duration, phasing and interrelations, milestones (including interim approvals by the Client), and delivery dates
 of the reports. The proposed work plan should be consistent with the technical approach and methodology,
 showing understanding of the Terms of Reference and ability to translate them into a feasible working plan.
 A list of the final documents, including reports, drawings, and tables to be delivered as final output, should be
 included here. The work plan should be consistent with the Work Schedule of Form TECH-8.

 c) Organization and Staffing. In this chapter you should propose the structure and composition of your team.
 You should list the main disciplines of the assignment, the key expert responsible, and proposed technical and
 support staff.]




                                                                                                  Page 30 of 43
Financial Proposal
The Proposer is required to prepare and submit the Financial Proposal in an envelope separately sealed from the
Technical Proposal and included inside the outer envelope to contain both separately sealed proposals. The
Financial Proposal should be inclusive of the taxes where applicable 3 , and the applicable taxes should be clearly
specified.
Please do not include any cost related to travel. Any agreed travel shall be subject to applicable guidelines in
GCF and relevant costs will be managed accordingly. Airfare tickets shall be provided for Economy class only.




3
 (a) Under Article 10 of the Headquarters Agreement, the property of the Green Climate Fund (“Fund”),
including the property of any offices, subsidiary bodies or facilities established by the Fund, the Fund’s
operations and transactions, and any property of the Fund in transit to or from the Headquarters, are:
     (i) Exempt from all direct taxes, except those which are, in fact, no more than charges for public utility
            services;
     (ii) Exempt from all indirect taxes, including any value-added tax and/or other similar tax, and excise
            duties levied on important purchases of goods and services for official purposes; and
     (iii) Exempt from customs duties, prohibitions and restrictions on imports and exports in respect of
            articles of any kind imported or exported by the Fund for its official use, except for prohibitions
            and restrictions on imports or exports relating to health and safety.
(b) under bilateral agreements concluded between the GCF and certain countries, the GCF may be exempt from
    all taxation and from all customs duties, and from any obligation for the payment, withholding or collection
    of any tax or duty.

                                                                                                   Page 31 of 43
FIN Forms
Form FIN-1: Financial Proposal Submission Form

[Location, Date]

To:     [Name and address of Client]


To whom it may concern:

        We, the undersigned, offer to provide the design and implementation for [Insert title of assignment] in
accordance with your Request for Proposal dated [Insert Date] and our Technical Proposal. Our attached
Financial Proposal is for the sum of [Insert amount(s) in words and figures1]. This amount is inclusive of the
taxes where applicable2.

         Our Financial Proposal shall be binding upon us subject to the modifications resulting from Contract
negotiations, up to expiration of the validity period of the Proposal, i.e. before the date indicated in Paragraph
2.6 of this RFP.


        We understand you are not bound to accept any Proposal you receive.

        We remain,

        Yours sincerely,

        Authorized Signature [In full and initials]:
        Name and Title of Signatory:
        Name of Firm:
        Address:



1 Amounts must coincide with the ones indicated under Total Cost of Financial proposal in Form FIN-2.
2          (a) Under Article 10 of the Headquarters Agreement, the property of the Green Climate Fund
(“Fund”), including the property of any offices, subsidiary bodies or facilities established by the Fund, the
Fund’s operations and transactions, and any property of the Fund in transit to or from the Headquarters, are:
(i)        Exempt from all direct taxes, except those which are, in fact, no more than charges for public utility
services;
(ii)       Exempt from all indirect taxes, including any value-added tax and/or other similar tax, and excise
duties levied on important purchases of goods and services for official purposes; and
(iii)      Exempt from customs duties, prohibitions and restrictions on imports and exports in respect of articles
of any kind imported or exported by the Fund for its official use, except for prohibitions and restrictions on
imports or exports relating to health and safety.
(b) under bilateral agreements concluded between the GCF and certain countries, the GCF may be exempt from
      all taxation and from all customs duties, and from any obligation for the payment, withholding or collection
      of any tax or duty.




                                                                                                  Page 32 of 43
Form FIN-2: Financial Proposal Submission Template


   A. Cost Breakdown


  Deliverable                                    Quantity             Cost (in    Cost Breakdown and
                                                                      USD)       Remarks
                                                                                 (Please specify detailed
                                                                                 breakdown of the cost
                                                                                 for each deliverable,
                                                                                 including any
                                                                                 professional services
                                                                                 costs)
  I. Solution Cost

  I. 1. Annual Subscription of Cloud            100 Users (with
  Hosted iBPMS Platform User Licenses,          different usage
  as illustrated in Annex I. 2.5 (If there is   patterns. See
  no cloud hosting available for proposing      Annex I.2.5)
  platform, please clearly indicate that the
  platform requires GCF infrastructure
  (VPC, etc.))

 I. 2. (Optional) Additional Per Year Per       Per User Per Year
 User platform license                          (List all user-type
                                                options, and
                                                indicate the cost
                                                of each options. If
                                                there is quantity
                                                discount tiers,
                                                please also
                                                describe them as
                                                well.)

   II. Implementation and Integration
  II. 1. Professional services related to       Total Service
 technical implementation of OAS 2.0 as         Charge
 indicated in Annex I.



  II. 2. (Optional) Additional Professional Hourly Rate (List
 Service for developing a new module on all grade levels if
 the proposed platform, integration to other applicable)
 systems, or enhancement of the existing
 module




                                                                                               Page 33 of 43
B. Total Cost of Financial Proposal


                                                   Costs

                                        Item          Indicate with
                                                        Currency

               Total Costs of Financial Proposal
               (I.1 + II. 1 of Table A)




                                                                      Page 34 of 43
Annex 3
Evaluation Criteria

A.     Evaluation and Comparison of Proposals

1.     The proposals will be evaluated in a three-stage procedure, starting with administrative compliance to
       ensure the proposals includes all necessary required documents and is duly signed by the authorized
       representative. Evaluation of the technical proposal will follow and will be completed prior to any
       financial proposal being opened and evaluated. The financial proposal will be considered only if the
       submissions fulfil the minimum technical requirements.

B.     Acceptance of Submissions

2.     All proposers are expected to adhere to the requirements for submitting a proposal. Any proposals that
       fail to comply will be disqualified from further consideration as part of this evaluation. In particular:

       • Full compliance with the formal requirements for submitting a proposal
       • Submission of all requested documentation
       • Acceptance of the GCF Model contract – Where the proposer notes issues, these must be raised as
       part of the technical proposal for consideration during evaluation

3.     The Technical Proposal shall include:

       •       A brief description, including ownership details, date and place of incorporation of the firm,
               objectives of the firm, partnerships, qualifications, certificates, etc.;
       •       Details to demonstrate vast experience in working with relevant multilateral development funds and
               familiarity with their operations; and
       •       Demonstration of the firm’s deep understanding of the GCF, mandate/business model and
               Investment Framework.

C.     Evaluation of Technical Proposal


4.     A reviewing committee shall be established to evaluate each technical proposal. The technical proposal
       is evaluated individually on the basis of its responsiveness to the technical requirements and will be
       assessed and scored according to the evaluation criteria below and as per scores in the table.

                                               Evaluation Criteria


      Summary of Technical Proposal Evaluation Forms                              Score            Points
                                                                                  Weight           Obtainable

           1     Expertise of Firm / Organization                                          30%             300

           2     Proposed Methodology, Approach and Implementation Plan                    35%             350


           3     Management Structure and Key Personnel                                    35%             350

                 TOTAL                                                                   100%            1000




                                                                                                  Page 35 of 43
Technical Proposal Evaluation (FORM I)

Expertise of the Firm/Organization                                                  Points
                                                                                    Obtainable

  1.1 Reputation of Organization and Staff / Credibility / Reliability / Industry            50
      Standing
        •   firms can provide relevant documents (certificate, report etc…) as
            applicable

  1.2 General Organizational Capability which is likely to affect the                        75
      implementation
        - Financial Stability
        - Loose consortium, Holding company or One firm
        - Age/size of the firm
        - Strength of the Project Management Support
        - Project Financing Capacity
        - Project Management Control

  1.3 Proportion of firm’s own engagement in the implementation                              25
        •   firms shall state clearly (if that is the case) which part (s) of the
            tasks/Deliverables they intend to sub-contract

  1.4 Quality assurance procedure, warranty                                                  75

  1.5 Relevance of:                                                                          75
        - Specialized Knowledge
        - Experience on Similar Programme / Projects
        - Experience on Projects in the Region

       SUB TOTAL                                                                            300



Technical Proposal Evaluation (FORM II)

Proposed Methodology, Approach and Implementation Plan                               Points
                                                                                     Obtainable

  2.1 To what degree does the Proposer understand the task?                                   25

  2.2 Have the important aspects of the task been addressed in sufficient                     25
      detail?

  2.3 Are the different components of the project adequately weighted relative                20
      to one another?




                                                                                    Page 36 of 43
           2.4 Is the proposal based on a thorough assessment and understanding of the                      50
               project context and was this data input properly used in the preparation
               of the proposal?

           2.5 Is the conceptual framework adopted appropriate for the task?                                50

           2.6 Is the scope of task well defined and does it correspond to the ToR?                        100

           2.7 Is the presentation clear and are the sequence of activities and the                         80
               planning logical, realistic and promise efficient implementation to the
               project?

                 SUB TOTAL                                                                                350


         Technical Proposal Evaluation (FORM III)

         Management Structure and Key Personnel                                                  Points
                                                                                                 Obtainable

           3.1 Task/Project Team /Team Leader
                 General Qualification: Suitability for the Project

                 International experience                                                                   50

                 Training experience                                                                        25

                 Professional experience in the area of specialization (BPM, AI, RPA etc.)                 150

                 Knowledge of Workflows Design, Document Databases & UI design and                         100
                 related technical sectors
                  English language qualification                                                            25

                 SUB TOTAL                                                                                350

Technical proposals that score at least 750 points out of 1000 will be considered as qualified for the review of
financial proposal. Any proposal less than that will be disqualified from proceeding to the next step and its
financial proposal shall be returned unopened following the award of the contract.

D.      Evaluation of Financial Proposal
The financial proposal of all proposers which have attained the minimum score in the technical evaluation will
be evaluated subsequently. The lowest evaluated Financial Proposal (Fm) is given the maximum financial score
(Sf) of 100. The formula for determining the financial scores (Sf) of all other Proposals is calculated as
following:

Sf = 100 x Fm/ F, in which “Sf” is the financial score, “Fm” is the lowest price, and “F” is the price of the
proposal under consideration.

E.      Consolidated evaluation
The weights given to the Technical (T) and Financial (P) Proposals are:


                                                                                                Page 37 of 43
T = 0.80, and P = 0.20

Proposals will be ranked according to their combined technical (St) and financial (Sf) scores using the weights
(T = the weight given to the Technical Proposal; P = the weight given to the Financial Proposal; T + P = 1) as
following: S = St x T% + Sf x P%.
The firm achieving the highest combined technical and financial score will be invited for contract negotiations.

F.      Award
The Award will be made to the responsive proposer who achieves the highest combined technical and financial
score, following negotiation of an acceptable contract. GCF reserves the right to conduct negotiations with the
Proposer regarding the contents of their offer. The award will be in effect only after acceptance by the selected
proposer of the terms and conditions and the technical requirements.




                                                                                                 Page 38 of 43
Annex 4
Company Profile Form
Please respond to all questions.
Company details - vendor’s name

 Name:

General Information

 Primary       contact    for
 sales/client services
 Address

                                Postal Code:              Country:
 Telephone:                                               Fax:
 E-mail:                                                  Web site:
 Parent company, if any
 Subsidiaries, Associates,
 and/or Overseas Rep(s), if
 any
 Year established
 Registration Number
 Type of organization       Public enterprise                                            (   )
                            Private company                                              (   )
                            Organization sponsored (assisted by Government)              (   )
                            Other (please specify): …..                                  (   )
 Type of Business           Manufacturer                                                 (   )
                            Retailer                                                     (   )
                            Authorized Agent                                             (   )
                            Consulting Company                                           (   )
                            Other (please specify): …..                                  (   )
 Summary of main business
 activities
 No. of employees
 (by location)
 Staff turnover rate
 In-house working language
 (s)
 Bank Name:
 Bank Address:
 Account Holder:
 Account Number:
 IBAN:
 SWIFT:
Prior experience with international organizations

 List contracts with international organizations in the last three years
 BRIEFLY list recent contracts that used relevant tools, technologies, and techniques:
 Attach additional sheets if necessary.
 1
 2
 3


                                                                                                 Page 39 of 43
Environmental Policy

 Does your company have a written statement of its environmental policy?

 YES ( ) Please attach copy                              NO ( )
Contract disputes

 List any disputes your company has been involved in over the last three years



References

 List suitable reference projects and contacts.
 What options would there be for a site visit to a reference project and/or the vendor’s site?
 1
 2
 3
Partners

 If this is a part bid, list relevant recent experience of working with partners.
 Are there already formal or informal preferred partnership agreements in place?
 1
 2
 3
Conflict of interest

 Are there any likely circumstances or contracts in place that may introduce a conflict of interest with
 the parties to this contract? If so, explain how this will be mitigated
 1
 2
Certification

I, the undersigned, confirm that the information provided in this annex is correct. In the event of changes, details
will be provided.


Name:            __________________________                Title:   _________________________


Signature:       __________________________                Date:    _________________________




                                                                                                    Page 40 of 43
Annex 5
Acknowledgment Letter

To whom it may concern,

We, the undersigned, acknowledge receipt of your Request for Proposal (RFP) No. RFP/2020/S/001 dated 11
February 2020, and hereby confirm that we:

      [ ] INTEND                [ ] DO NOT INTEND

to submit a proposal to the secretariat of the Green Climate Fund (GCF) by the deadline date of 9 March 2020,
and that we:

      [ ] INTEND                [ ] DO NOT INTEND

to send one (1) authorized representative to observe the public opening procedure on 11 March 2020 17:30 Hrs
Korean Time (Note: attendance to the public opening procedure is optional.)

We acknowledge that this RFP is confidential and proprietary to the GCF, and contains privileged information.
      Name of Authorized Representative:________________________________________

                                   Signature: ________________________________________
                                        Title: ________________________________________
                  Name and Address of Vendor: ________________________________________
                                               ________________________________________
                                               ________________________________________
                                  Telephone: ________________________________________
                                   Facsimile: ________________________________________

If you do not intend to submit a proposal to the GCF, please indicate the reason:
      [ ] We do not have the capacity to submit a proposal at this time.
      [ ] We cannot meet the requirements for this RFP.
      [ ] We do not think we can make a competitive offer at this time.
      [ ] Other (please specify): ____________________________________________________

Kindly return this acknowledgement letter immediately via e-mail to procurement@gcfund.org

NOTE: Due to current security arrangements, your authorized representative must present a completed
copy of this letter in order to observe the public opening procedure.




                                                                                              Page 41 of 43
Annex 6
Timeline

The Green Climate Fund will follow the timeline below for this RFP. Any changes to this timeline will be posted
on the GCF website. Please note that the target dates and may be adjusted.

                                                  Responsible
       Event                                                      Date (and time, KST*)
                                                  Party
 1    Issuance of RFP                             GCF             11 February 2020
 2    Last day to send completed Tenderer                         2 March 2020
      Acknowledgement Letter of RFP
      receipt
 3    Last date for requests for clarification of Tenderer        2 March 2020 17:00 Hrs Korean Time
      the RFP
 4    Last date to reply to questions received/ GCF               4 March 2020
      Last date for amendment
 5    Date by which proposal must be Tenderer                     11 March 2020; 17:00 Hrs Korean
      received in Korea by GCF                                    Time
 6    Date of opening of Technical Proposals GCF                  11 March 2020; 17:30
 7    Notice of successful provider               GCF             30 April 2020
 8    Contract signing                            GCF/Tenderer    4 May 2020
 9    Work start                                  Tenderer        11 May 2020
* KST: Korean Standard Time (Seoul Time)




                                                                                              Page 42 of 43
Annex 7

GCF Model Contract

By submitting a proposal to this RFP, Bidders are considered to have carefully reviewed the GCF Model
Contract and be in agreement with all its terms and conditions. Where the bidder has specific issues of concern,
those must be raised and indicated in the Technical proposal clearly for consideration during evaluation. Any
request of amendments to GCF Model Contract and terms and conditions must be accompanied by detailed and
compelling justification for review and consideration by GCF. It should be noted that request of amendments to
GCF Model Contract and terms and conditions may negatively affect evaluation of the proposal and, in some
cases, where such amendments are incompatible with GCF’s binding policies and rules, may prejudice the final
award.

NB: For this particular contract, the Performance Standards (Clause 8), Insurance (Clause 9), Performance
Security (Clause 10) and Deductions Clauses (Clause 11) of the SCC will not be applicable.

*Note: The Board adopted at the recent meeting a new policy on SEAH (Sexual Exploitation, Sexual Abuse and
Sexual Harassment) and therefore the GCF is required to include new provisions in the General Conditions of
Contract. While the specific wording is yet to be formulated, the eventual contract will need to include such new
provisions.




                                                                                                 Page 43 of 43
