                                                                               Available for Public Use



          Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) Advisory Services - REVISED


 SOLICITATION INFORMATION:

 Method of Solicitation:                    Request for Proposal (RFP)
 Award Effective Date:                      TBD
 Contract Period of Performance:            TBD
 Solicitation Number:                       IT-19-086
 UPDATED ISSUE DATE:                        March 5, 2020
 NEW PROPOSAL DUE DATE:                     April 3, 2020

 CONTRACT TO BE ISSUED BY:

Universal Service Administrative Co.
700 12th Street, NW, Suite 900
Washington, DC 20005

 CONTACT INFORMATION

 USAC CONTACT INFORMATION                            OFFEROR CONTACT INFORMATION
  Sparkle Mixon                                  (complete)
  Sr. Procurement Specialist                     Name:
  P: 202-772-4534                                POC:
  E: sparkle.mixon@usac.org                      POC Title:
                                                 POC Phone:
                                                 POC Email:
                                                 Address:



 OFFEROR SIGNATURE



Name and Title                                                               Date




       Universal Service Administrative Co. | CISO Advisory Services | Request for Proposals (RFP)

                                                   COVER PAGE
                                                                               Available for Public Use


SECTION A:
  About Us and the Work
 I.      Overview of the Project

      Universal Service Administrative Company (“USAC”) is seeking a collaborative, best-in-class
      contractor to provide consulting and support services to act as an integral part of the USAC
      organization driving successful outcomes required by USAC’s Information Security Program.
      The USAC Information Security Program designs and implements security practices to protect
      critical business processes and information technology (IT) assets; ensuring the confidentiality,
      integrity, and availability. The program defines policies and procedures for assessing risk,
      monitoring threats, and mitigating attacks. The selected contractor (“Contractor”) is expected
      to work directly with USAC staff in order to satisfy the objectives of the Information Security
      Program.

      USAC’s Information Technology Department (“USAC IT”) consists of 155 employees and
      sixty-two (62) professional services contractors, supporting 12 accreditation boundaries. In
      2017, USAC IT executed 264 individual application releases, 175 infrastructure releases,
      and Information Technology (“IT”) was able to deliver 99.78% uptime. With recent growth
      and business operational changes, it is important at this juncture to assess USAC’s IT
      infrastructure, architecture, business intelligence, program management office, and licensing
      posture.

II.      Background

      Through its administration of the Universal Service Fund (“USF”) programs on behalf of the
      Federal Communication Commission (“FCC”), USAC works to promote the availability of
      quality services at just, reasonable and affordable rates and to increase access to advanced
      telecommunications services throughout the nation. Specifically, the USF programs provide
      funding for the expansion of telecommunications and broadband access to rural communities
      and health care facilities, schools and libraries across the country, and low-income households.
      Through program administration, auditing, and outreach, USAC works with contributors,
      service providers, and program beneficiaries to achieve the program goals articulated by the
      FCC for each of these programs.

      The FCC has reformed the USF to support further investment in and access to evolving
      broadband infrastructure, making the programs a primary vehicle to support this critical
      national priority. USAC, as the administrator of the USF, plays a critical role in supporting
      the ambitious vision to ensure that all citizens in the United States have access to high-speed
      broadband. The organization has approximately 500 employees. USAC works in close
      partnership with the FCC and other federal and state partners to support the achievement of
      the USF program goals.

          Universal Service Administrative Co. | CISO Advisory Services | Request for Proposals (RFP)

                                                      Page 1
                                                                            Available for Public Use

  USAC also administers the USF programs—High Cost, Lifeline, Rural Health Care, and
  Schools and Libraries. USAC strives to provide efficient, responsible stewardship of the
  programs, a key national asset in making important telecommunications and Internet services
  available to consumers, health care providers, schools, and libraries throughout the United
  States. The program divisions are supported by additional USAC personnel in Finance,
  General Counsel, Information Systems, Internal Audit, the Enterprise Program Management
  Office and Human Resources.

  Consistent with FCC rules, USAC does not make policy for or interpret unclear provisions of
  statutes or the FCC’s rules. The USF is paid for by contributions from telecommunications
  carriers, including wireline and wireless companies, and interconnected Voice over Internet
  Protocol providers, including cable companies that provide voice service, based on an
  assessment of their interstate and international end- user revenues. These contributions are
  most typically passed through to consumers through a universal service fee line item on their
  telephone bills.

High Cost Program
The High Cost Program is dedicated to preserving and advancing voice and broadband service,
both fixed and mobile, in rural areas of the United States. The High Cost Program ensures that
rates for broadband and voice services are reasonably comparable in every region of the U.S.
Like all USF programs, the administration of the High Cost Program has undergone significant
modernization in the last several years to increase innovation and ensure beneficiaries have
access to updated technology. USAC is leveraging the new High Cost Universal Broadband
Portal (“HUBB”), which allows Carriers participating in modernized Connect America programs
to file deployment data showing where they are building out mass-market, high- speed internet
service by precise location. This information includes latitude and longitude coordinates for
every location where service is available, and USAC will eventually display this information on
a public-facing map to show the impact of Connect America funding on broadband expansion
throughout rural America.

Low-Income (Lifeline) Program
The Lifeline Program provides a monthly discount on landline or wireless phone service to
eligible low- income households. USAC works to ensure program integrity by making
measurable and vital progress towards reducing program inefficiencies and waste while
supporting the needs of Lifeline Program stakeholders through a detailed understanding of their
challenges. To combat fraud, waste, and abuse, USAC reviews processes regularly to increase
compliance, identify avenues for operational improvements, and refine program controls, such as
audit processes. USAC has focused on data analytics to improve customer service and outreach
approaches and increase the reach and effectiveness of the program to better serve service
providers and subscribers. USAC is in the process of building the National Verifier, which will
include the national Lifeline Eligibility Database to determine subscriber eligibility. USAC also
operates the National Lifeline Accountability Database (“NLAD”) which prevents duplicate
subscribers from receiving support in the Lifeline program.


       Universal Service Administrative Co. | CISO Advisory Services | Request for Proposals (RFP)

                                                   Page 2
                                                                            Available for Public Use

Rural Health Care (RHC) Program
The Rural Health Care Program supports health care facilities in bringing medical care to rural
areas through increased connectivity. The Rural Health Care Program provides reduced rates for
broadband and telecommunications services via the Healthcare Connect Fund Program and
Telecommunications Program. These telecommunications and broadband services are necessary
to support telemedicine and allow cutting edge solutions and treatments to be accessible to
Americans residing in rural areas.

Schools and Libraries (E-rate) Program
The Schools and Libraries program helps schools and libraries obtain high-speed Internet access
and telecommunications at affordable rates. In connection with the FCC’s E-rate modernization
reform efforts, the program has included a focus on broadband to and within schools and
libraries to support a modern and dynamic learning environment for all students. In support of
improved program outcomes, USAC has completed the E-rate Productivity Center (“EPC”)
which enables electronic participation in the reformed Schools and Libraries Program. E-rate
program funding helps ensure connectivity for schools and libraries across the country. USAC
is investing in new tools and data analytics capabilities to support the program in alignment
with the FCC’s goals.

Additional information on USF programs can be found at:
http://www.usac.org/about/about/who-we- are/default.aspx




       Universal Service Administrative Co. | CISO Advisory Services | Request for Proposals (RFP)

                                                   Page 3
                                                                            Available for Public Use



SECTION B:
 Requirements and Scope of Work
I.   OVERVIEW

     The Contractor shall provide CISO advisory and support services for USAC. The
     Contractor shall act as an integral part of the USAC organization driving successful
     outcomes required by USAC’s Information Security Program. The selected Contractor is
     expected to work directly with USAC staff and other contractors in order to satisfy the
     objectives of USAC’s Information Security Program.

     USAC’s Information Security Program adheres to the Federal Information Security
     Management Act (“FISMA”) / National Institute of Standards and Technology (“NIST”)
     framework for information security. This framework has been applied to systems in
     production and new systems being developed that support the mission of the USF.

     USAC organizational characteristics with respect to Information Security, are as follows:
          • Five (5) Customer-facing business units which include Lifeline, Schools and
              Libraries, Rural Healthcare, High Cost and Contributions that interact via web-
              based applications and Application Programming Interfaces (“APIs”) with
              USF beneficiaries (schools, libraries, rural healthcare providers, low-income
              Lifeline subscribers), telecommunications service providers, and USF
              stakeholders. Each of these business units has no more than five (5) key
              systems. The majority of these systems are custom-built and on premise.
              More recent systems are managed in third party vendor's cloud environments.
          • The business units are also supported by USAC internal systems including the
              General Support Services (GSS), the Enterprise Database System (EDS), and
              the Finance Operations System/Great Plains.
          • The Business Support Units (Human Resources, Internal Audit, General
              Counsel, and Information Technology) mostly have commercial off-the-shelf
              (“COTS”) based support systems that are configured to meet business unit
              requirements.

     The Contractor shall provide CISO advisory services to include:

              1. USAC Information Security Program management
              2. Project Management Office (“PMO”) support
              3. Develop a t Security and Privacy Awareness Program to assist with USAC
                 education, monitoring, and ongoing maintenance of security and privacy
                 awareness needs.
              4. Audit support services

       Universal Service Administrative Co. | CISO Advisory Services | Request for Proposals (RFP)

                                                   Page 4
                                                                               Available for Public Use


       The executive sponsors for this engagement are USAC’s Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”)
       and Chief Information Officer (“CIO”). In addition to IT staff and IT professional services
       contractors, the Contractor will be provided access to the Divisional Vice Presidents for each
       business unit, Finance, Enterprise Portfolio Management Division, and Internal Audit
       Division as well as to line management and staff within these internal functions, as needed,
       to complete the Deliverables, as defined in Section C., I., C.

 II.      TYPE OF CONTRACT

       This will be a firm fixed price, single award contract (“Contract”). The firm fixed price for
       the work (total project and all line items) is to be set forth in Attachment 1 to the Contractor
       Response to the RFP. The Contract price must include all direct and indirect costs set forth
       in this Section B, including equipment, product support, supplies, general and
       administrative expenses, overhead, materials, travel, labor, taxes (including use and sales
       taxes), shipping, and profit. USAC may reimburse Contractor for any pre-approved travel
       related expenses to USAC vendor locations on behalf of USAC in accordance with USAC’s
       Travel Policy.

III.      CONTRACT TERM
        The period of performance for the Contract is one year, with two (2) one-year option
        periods, for a total possible term of three (3) years (the “Term”). The option periods may be
        exercised only by USAC, at its sole discretion, by giving Contractor no less than thirty (30)
        days advance written notice. Each Term shall commence on the Effective Date on which the
        Contract is signed.

IV.      PLACE OF PERFORMANCE
       A. All required Key Personnel Contract Services, as defined in Section C., I., E.,
          must be performed within the United States at USAC’s headquarters at 700
          12th Street NW, Suite 900, Washington, DC 20005 (“USAC Headquarters”).

       B. A Contract kick-off meeting will be held at USAC Headquarters. Status and other
          meetings may be held telephonically or in person, at USAC’s discretion. USAC will
          not reimburse Contractor for any travel related expenses for kick-off, status, and other
          meetings.

       C. Services requiring work at USAC Headquarters, will include appropriate work space
          and appropriate access to USAC’s computer network. NOTE: To access USAC IT
          Systems, Contractor must sign USAC’s IT Security Rules of Behavior Form and
          complete mandatory IT Security and Privacy Awareness Online Training.
          Contractor may be required to complete Role-Based Privacy Act Training if
          accessing USAC information systems designated as federal system of records (i.e.,
          National Verifier and NLAD).


          Universal Service Administrative Co. | CISO Advisory Services | Request for Proposals (RFP)

                                                      Page 5
                                                                              Available for Public Use

      D. Status update meetings and other meetings may be held virtually, except to the extent
         that USAC or the Contractor requires in-person presence. While attending USAC
         Headquarters for meetings or to conduct an assessment of USAC’s existing information
         security program based on NIST CyberSecurity Framework, Contractor staff will be
         considered as visitors. All visitors are required to complete USAC’s Visitor Form,
         USAC Visitor Form, and wear a badge while on premises. The Contract kick-off
         meeting and all in-person meetings will be held at USAC Headquarters or other
         reasonable locations designated by USAC.

V.        COMPANY PROFILE
      USAC is a not-for-profit Delaware corporation, which works under the oversight of the
      FCC. USAC is not a federal agency, a government corporation, a government-controlled
      corporation or other establishment in the Executive Branch of the United States
      Government. USAC is not a contractor to the Federal Government. The Contract awarded
      as a result of this RFP will not be a subcontract under a federal prime contract. USAC
      does, however, conduct its procurements in accordance with the terms of a Memorandum
      of Understanding with the FCC, which requires USAC to adhere to the following
      provisions from the Code of Federal Regulations: 2 C.F.R. §§ 200.318-321; 200.323;
      200.325-326 and App. II to C.F.R. Part 200 (collectively “Procurement Regulations”).
      Further, USAC’s IT systems that are used to administer the USF programs and USAC
      vendors that handle and manage USF data must be compliant with FISMA and NIST
      requirements as applicable to federal agencies.

VI.      SCOPE OF THE SERVICES AND DELIVERABLES

      A. The Contractor shall provide the following services:

        1. Information Security Program Management Support.
         In conjunction with the USAC Director of Information Security (“DIS”), the Contractor shall
         be responsible for overseeing the strategic and day-to-day aspects of the Information Security
         Program by performing the following:

               i.   Develop a strategic and tactical security program management plan to include
                    a method for tracking program maturity, performance and improvement over
                    time.. This plan should:
                    a. Use the NIST framework as a benchmark, identify domains that require
                       further development.
                    b. Provide a maturity plan for each domain to strengthen USAC security
                       posture.
                    c. Provide strategic and tactical eighteen (18) month action plan that provides
                       recommendations on sequence and prioritization to improve effectiveness
                       across all security domains.
                    d. Provide project management oversight to implement the eighteen (18)
                       month plan.
         Universal Service Administrative Co. | CISO Advisory Services | Request for Proposals (RFP)

                                                     Page 6
                                                                      Available for Public Use


      ii.     Conduct the incident response analyses; develop and conduct incident response
              training programs.

     iii.     Develop monthly metrics that measure the security program’s effectiveness.
              These metrics will include, at a minimum, a status and trends in each area:
              a. IT System and Business Risks
              b. Active Vulnerabilities
              c. Assessment & Authorization
              d. Contingency Planning
              e. Incident Response
              f. Information Security Education, training, and awareness

2. Project Management Office (“PMO”) Support
 In conjunction with the USAC CIO, the Contractor shall be responsible for managing the
 strategic and day-to-day aspects of the PMO Support Program, performing the following:

       i.      Act as the PMO support liaison for the DIS and as liaison with other members
               of the Information Security team to ensure that documentation is up to date for
               internal and public consumption.
      ii.      Manage the internal and external document repository for the USAC
               Information Security team, as well as the external customer facing SharePoint
               site.
     iii.      Monitor ongoing business and systems activities and triage new Information
               Security related projects, reviewing their feasibility, and developing a realistic
               schedule for successful execution.
            iv.Ensure that project plans are developed for individual Information Security
               projects such as System Accreditation, Penetration Testing, IV&V, and
               Continuous Monitoring.
      v.       Track progress and provide regular status, metrics and reports on the
               Information Security office projects and initiatives on the internal dashboard
               and to CIO and USAC leadership.
     vi.       Provide information and content for the weekly activity reports to the USAC
               CIO.
    vii.       Capture, organize, and maintain all draft and final security artifacts in the
               USAC repository.
   viii.       Lead FCC bi-weekly IT Security meeting including preparing agenda, meeting
               minutes, and any follow ups and provide meeting minutes of the weekly internal
               dashboard meeting.
     ix.       Review documentation and/or communications prior to being submitted to FCC.
      x.       Develop processes, procedures, and templates to ensure the appropriate
               information security and privacy requirements flow down to all third-party
               vendors.


 Universal Service Administrative Co. | CISO Advisory Services | Request for Proposals (RFP)

                                             Page 7
                                                                      Available for Public Use


3. USAC-wide Information Security and Privacy Awareness Training Program.
 In conjunction with the USAC CIO, the Contractor shall be responsible for establishing and
 maintaining information-security awareness through a security awareness program by
 performing the following:

           i.    Develop a robust security awareness program to assist with USAC
                 education, monitoring, and ongoing maintenance of security awareness
                 needs. The program should be focused on:

                     a. Establish Minimum Security Awareness (new hire training, e-mails
                        and circulars, memos, notices, bulletins, posters, etc.).
                     b. Identification and development of role-based security training.
                     c. Metrics to Assess Awareness Training.

          ii.    Assist in selecting an appropriate vendor for providing the content for the
                 training.
         iii.    Implement and manage USAC security awareness program.

4. Privacy Program Support.
 In conjunction with the USAC Privacy Officer, the Contractor shall be responsible for
 assisting the USAC Privacy Officer in ensuring USAC compliance with all applicable
 statutory, regulatory, and policy requirements by performing the following:

           i.    Identify gaps in USAC’s Privacy related policies and procedures and assisting
                 with the development of the identified artifacts.
          ii.    Assist the USAC Privacy Officer in ensuring USAC compliance with all
                 applicable statutory, regulatory, and policy privacy-related requirements
                 applicable to USAC.

         iii.    Ensure USAC compliance with Privacy Policies, FISMA, NIST Risk
                 Management Framework, and Privacy Act and applicable state privacy
                 requirements.
          iv.    Ensure controls are enacted, as appropriate, when USAC collects, uses, retains,
                 and shares Personally Identifiable Information (PII) including the selection and
                 implementation of particular security and privacy controls.
          v.     Ensure NIST privacy controls are documented, as required, for each USAC
                 information system.
          vi.    Assist the USAC Privacy Officer with completing its Privacy Threshold
                 Analyses (“PTAs”) and Privacy Impact Assessments (“PIAs”) under Section
                 208(b) of the E-Government Act of 2002.
         vii.    Manage and maintain a process for reporting policy violations and assist the
                 USAC Privacy Officer with responding to privacy-related audits and reviews.
        viii.    Conduct research and analysis and recommend changes to the USAC Privacy
 Universal Service Administrative Co. | CISO Advisory Services | Request for Proposals (RFP)

                                             Page 8
                                                                        Available for Public Use

                   Policy for annual updates. Create, present, and explain policy and strategic
                   concepts to support privacy awareness and privacy-related controls to include
                   creating training and presentation materials.

  5. Audit Support Services.
   In conjunction with the USAC CIO, the Contractor shall be responsible for managing the
   strategic and day-to-day aspects of providing internal inspection and audit support to USAC
   by performing the following:

             i.    Manage and provide support for internal audits and the annual FISMA audit.
            ii.    Develop and maintain a FISMA Audit Project Plan analysis of prior year
                   FISMA audits and issues that identifies areas for improvement.
           iii.    Conduct DIS-approved pre-audit test procedures documenting results and
                   triaging weaknesses.
            iv.    Provide audit support to the USAC CIO and USAC’s Audit and Assurance
                   Division to include pre- and post- audit activities. These activities will include,
                   at a minimum:
                        a. Serve as a liaison between all vested parties;

                       b. Coordinate and track all audits (requests, meetings, Deliverables); and

                       c. Draft and submit for FCC review and approval, Corrective Action Plans
                          (“CAPs”) for all FISMA findings to include prior year open findings, in
                          coordination with USAC’s Enterprise Portfolio Management Office
                          (EMPO).

  6. Vulnerability/Scanning Management Support :
   In conjunction with the USAC DISCISO, Contractor shall be responsible for developing,
   implementing, and managing vulnerability/scanning management including but not
   limited to:

             i.    Work with vulnerability engineer to ensure scans are conducted in timely
                   manner
            ii.    Review vulnerability scan results to perform vulnerability assessment
           iii.    Track vulnerabilities in compliance with USAC policies and procedures
           iv.     Provide vulnerability metrics and trending reports for various stakeholders

B. The Contractor shall provide the following Contract deliverables:
  1. Information Security Program Plan
  2. Information Security Program Metrics
  3. Information Security Education, Training and Awareness Program plan and training
     curriculum
  4. Information Security Education, Training and Awareness Metrics
  5. Incident Response Plan
   Universal Service Administrative Co. | CISO Advisory Services | Request for Proposals (RFP)

                                               Page 9
                                                                             Available for Public Use

       6.    Project plans for Information Security projects
       7.    Weekly Activity reports
       8.    FISMA Audit Project Plan
       9.    Audit Findings Responses and Corrective Action Plans (CAPs)

VII.        MEETINGS/MANAGEMENT AND KEY PERSONNEL

            A. Meetings.
               1. Project Kick-Off Meeting.
                a. Within five (5) business days of the Contract start date, the Contractor shall initiate
                   work on this Contract by meeting with key USAC representatives to ensure a
                   common understanding of the requirements, expectations, and ultimate end
                   products for the CISO advisory and support services (the “Project”). Prior to the
                   meeting, the Contractor shall review the background information and materials
                   provided by USAC. At the meeting, the Contractor shall be prepared to discuss the
                   overall understanding of the Project.

                 b. Contractor shall begin performance of CISO support services no later than ten
                    (10) calendar days following the project kick-off meeting. During the project
                    kick-off meeting Contractor and USAC will jointly author a Rules of
                    Engagement for the Project.

                 c. Discussions will also include the Scope of Work, Deliverables to be produced,
                    how the efforts will be organized and how the Project will be conducted.

                 d. The Contractor shall present a project plan (the “Project Plan”) to USAC for
                    discussion and approval. The Project Plan should detail the agile process for
                    reporting and remediating critical and high findings prior to issuing the final
                    Deliverables. A concerted effort shall be made to gain a thorough understanding
                    of USAC’s expectations. However, nothing discussed in this, or in any
                    subsequent meetings or discussions between USAC and the Contractor shall be
                    construed as adding to, deleting, or modifying any Contract requirements,
                    including Deliverable specifications and due dates. All Contract modifications
                    and amendments must be approved in writing by an authorized USAC
                    Procurement representative.

                2. Bi-Weekly Status Meetings.
                a. Key Personnel must schedule and participate in bi-weekly status meetings
                   and travel to USAC Headquarters in accordance with the requirements of
                   the Contract.

                b. Contractor shall prepare a status report and submit it to USAC twice per week
                   (“Twice Weekly Status Report”). The report must include the current status for
                   each of the Project work streams including percentage of completion,
        Universal Service Administrative Co. | CISO Advisory Services | Request for Proposals (RFP)

                                                    Page 10
                                                                        Available for Public Use

             achievements and any risks/issues relating to Contract performance or payment.
             The report must include an expected completion date and the circumstances
             surrounding any possible delays. The report shall be submitted one (1) business
             day before each regularly scheduled status meeting and no later than Friday
             noon (12:00 PM ET) during weeks in which the meeting is scheduled for
             Monday or when no status meeting is scheduled. The Twice Weekly Status
             Report shall be used as the basis of the status meeting discussion.

         3. Milestone Status Meetings.
            a. Key Personnel must be prepared to present each Deliverable either in-
               person or via webcast meeting, as directed by USAC. For revision rounds,
               the Contractor’s key personnel should be prepared to walk through any
               editing round questions.

             b. Key Personnel must be prepared to provide interim deliverable updates, as
                requested by USAC.

B. Key Personnel.
   Contractor shall provide staffing for the sample labor categories below, or Contractor may
   propose other labor categories in its proposal submission. Any additional labor categories
   must include the associated labor hour bill rate for each additional category submitted as
   well as the experience and qualifications of the personnel to be assigned to that labor
   category. Contractor shall assign, as Key Personnel, at least one of each of the following:

          Security Program Consultant - The Contractor shall be responsible for
          managing the strategic and day-to-day aspects of the Information Security
          Program. The Contractor must have the follow qualifications:
             • Bachelor’s degree (master’s degree strongly preferred) and advanced
                 relevant technical training and certifications. Eight (8) to ten (10)
                 years of directly related work experience.
             • Five (5) to seven (7) years of management experience.
             • Three (3) to four (4) years of business leadership experience
             • Strong experience and knowledge in the following areas expected:
                     o NIST
                     o FISMA and FedRAMP
                     o Audit Assessment Experience (internal and external)
                     o Active Directory Systems
                     o Network Security
                     o Database Security
                     o Operating Security
                     o Application Security
                     o System Security
                     o Incident Response Management and Training
                     o Enterprise IT Policy and Definitions
   Universal Service Administrative Co. | CISO Advisory Services | Request for Proposals (RFP)

                                               Page 11
                                                                      Available for Public Use

                     o Forecasting/Budgeting


The Contractor may propose additional labor categories in its proposal submission. Any
additional labor categories must include the associated labor hour bill rate for each
additional category submitted as well as the experience and qualifications of the personnel
to be assigned to that labor category.




 Universal Service Administrative Co. | CISO Advisory Services | Request for Proposals (RFP)

                                             Page 12
                                                                              Available for Public Use


      SECTION C:
      USAC Terms and Conditions
 I.    DEFINITIONS

       A. “Contractor” means the Offeror whose proposal was selected for award of the Contract.

       B. “Data” means recorded information, regardless of form or the media on which it may be
          recorded, and includes, but is not limited to, technical data and Software.

       C. “Deliverables” means the deliverables, goods, items, products, and material that are to be
          prepared by Contractor and delivered to USAC as described in Section B.

       D. “Offeror” means an entity submitting a formal proposal in response to this Solicitation.

       E. “Services” means the tasks, services, functions and responsibilities described in Section B
          and in the Contract issued hereunder.

       F. “Software” means computer programs that allow or cause a computer to perform a specific
          operation or series of operations, together with all modifications to, or enhancements
          (“derivative works”) thereof.

II.    INSPECTION / ACCEPTANCE

      Contractor shall only tender for acceptance Services and Deliverables that conform to the
      requirements of the Contract. USAC will, following Contractor’s tender, inspect or test the
      Deliverables or Services and:

       (a)   Accept the Services and Deliverables; or

       (b)   Reject the Services and Deliverables and advise Contractor of the reasons for the
             rejection.

      If rejected, Contractor must repair, correct or replace nonconforming Deliverables or re-perform
      nonconforming Services, at no increase in Contract price. If repair, correction, replacement or
      re-performance by Contractor will not cure the defects or is not possible, USAC may terminate
      for cause under Section C.XI, below, and, in addition to any other remedies, may reduce the
      Contract price to deduct amounts for the defective work.




             Universal Service Administrative Co. | CISO Advisory Services | Request for Proposals (RFP)

                                                      Page 13
                                                                               Available for Public Use

       Unless specified elsewhere in the Contract, title to items furnished under the Contract shall pass
       to USAC upon acceptance, regardless of when or where USAC takes possession.

III.    ENTIRE CONTRACT / BINDING EFFECT

       The Contract, including the following contract documents listed in descending order of
       precedence: (1) Sections A-E, including the attachments identified in Section D; and (2) any
       other attachments – constitutes the entire agreement between the parties with respect to the
       subject matter hereof and supersedes and replaces all prior or contemporaneous understandings
       or agreements, written or oral, regarding such subject matter. Section B and Section C have
       priority and shall take precedence over any other Contract document, including Contractor
       proposals that may be included as attachments to the Contract. Any waiver of any provision of
       the Contract will be effective only if in writing and signed by the party granting the waiver. The
       Contract shall be binding upon and shall inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their
       respective successors and assignees.

IV.     CHANGES

       The terms of the Contract shall not be modified other than in writing signed by the parties. The
       parties may bilaterally modify the Contract as needed.

 V.     INVOICES

        A. Where to Submit Invoices. Contractor shall submit invoices through the USAC Coupa
           Supplier Portal (CSP) method or via the Supplier Actionable Notification (SAN)
           method. The CSP method will require Contractor to register and create an account for the
           CSP. An invitation link to the CSP may be obtained by emailing CoupaHelp@usac.org. The
           SAN method will require Contractor to invoice directly from the purchase order (PO) sent
           by USAC via email. Contractor will receive a SAN with action buttons and can create an
           invoice from or add a comment to the PO and acknowledge the receipt of the PO. For
           assistance on all Coupa related billing questions, Contractor may email
           CoupaHelp@usac.org. For assistance on all non-Coupa related billing questions,
           Contractor may email accounting@usac.org.


        B. Invoice Content. Invoices must include:
              1. Name and address of Contractor;
              2. Invoice date, number and period of performance;
              3. Contract number;
              4. Completed and signed copies of the Contractor Weekly Status Report and Time
                  Sheet by each Contractor personnel performing services on the Contract for the
                  time period covered by the invoice, if applicable;


              Universal Service Administrative Co. | CISO Advisory Services | Request for Proposals (RFP)

                                                       Page 14
                                                                               Available for Public Use

                5. Name and address of official to whom payment is to be sent or to notify in event of
                   invoice or payment issues; and
                6. Any other substantiating documentation or information as reasonably required by
                   USAC.

         C. EFT Information. Contractor shall provide Electronic Funds Transfer (EFT) banking
            information via secure method prior to issuance of first invoice. USAC shall not be liable
            for incomplete or erroneous transfers which occur as a result of Contractor providing
            incorrect or out of date EFT information.

         D. Invoice Submittal Date. Contractor may submit invoices for payment upon completion and
            USAC’s acceptance of all of the work associated with a Contract or, if the period of
            performance of a Contract exceeds sixty (60) days, once every thirty (30) days, with the
            submission of the first invoice no earlier than thirty (30) days after issuance of the Contract.

         E. Content of Periodic Invoices. If periodic invoices are submitted for a Contract, each
            invoice shall include only services that have been completed and Deliverables that have
            been accepted as of the date of invoice submission and that have not been billed in a prior
            invoice.

         F. Contractor Statement to Accompany Invoices. All invoices shall be accompanied by the
            following statement signed by Contractor: “I certify that the services and items submitted
            on this invoice have been performed and delivered in accordance with the Contract [insert
            contract number] and that all charges are true, correct and have not been previously billed.”

VI.      PAYMENT / RATES

       Contractor shall be paid for Services performed according to a firm fixed-price, based on the
       invoice schedule set forth in Attachment 2. USAC will pay invoices submitted in accordance
       with Section C.V., above, within thirty (30) calendar days of receipt of invoice, provided the
       Services and/or Deliverables have been delivered and accepted by USAC.

VII.     PATENT INDEMNITY

       Contractor shall indemnify, hold harmless and defend USAC and its directors, officers,
       employees and agents against any and all claims and liability, including attorney’s fees and other
       costs, for actual or alleged direct or contributory infringement of, or inducement to infringe, or
       misappropriation of, any patent, trademark or copyright, arising out of or related to Contractor’s
       performance of the Contract.




              Universal Service Administrative Co. | CISO Advisory Services | Request for Proposals (RFP)

                                                       Page 15
                                                                                Available for Public Use

VIII.    ASSIGNMENT / SUBCONTRACTING

        Contractor shall not assign or subcontract all or any portion of the Contract without obtaining
        USAC’s prior written consent. Consent must be obtained at least thirty (30) days prior to the
        proposed assignment or subcontracting. USAC may require information and assurances that the
        proposed assignee or subcontractor has the skills, capacity, qualifications and financial strength
        to meet all of the obligations under the Contract. An assignment or subcontract shall not release
        the Contractor of the obligations under the Contract, and the assignee or subcontractor shall be
        jointly and severally liable with the Contractor. Contractor shall not enter into any subcontract
        with a company or entity that is debarred, suspended, or proposed for debarment or suspension
        by any federal executive agency unless there is a compelling reason to do so. Contractor shall
        review the System for Award Management (“SAM”) for suspension or debarment status of
        proposed subcontractors. See https://www.sam.gov.

 IX.     TERMINATION FOR CONVENIENCE

        USAC may terminate the Contract for any reason or no reason upon one (1) day prior written
        notice to the Contractor. Subject to the terms of the Contract, Contractor shall be paid for all
        time actually spent performing the Services required by the Contract up to date of termination,
        plus reasonable charges Contractor can demonstrate to the satisfaction of USAC have resulted
        directly from the termination.

  X.     TERMINATION FOR CAUSE

        Upon the expiration of a ten (10) day cure period (during which the defaulting party did not
        provide a sufficient cure), the non-defaulting party may terminate the Contract issued hereunder,
        in whole or in part, for cause in the event of the defaulting party’s failure to comply with any
        material term or condition of the Contract, as applicable, or if either party fails to provide the
        other party, upon request, with adequate assurances of future performance. In the event of
        termination for cause, the non-defaulting party shall be entitled to any and all rights and remedies
        provided by law or equity. If it is determined that USAC improperly terminated the Contract for
        cause, such termination shall be deemed a termination for convenience. In the event of partial
        termination, the defaulting party shall continue to perform the portion of the Services not
        terminated.




               Universal Service Administrative Co. | CISO Advisory Services | Request for Proposals (RFP)

                                                        Page 16
                                                                                Available for Public Use

 XI.     STOP WORK ORDER

        USAC may, in its sole discretion, issue a stop work order at any time during the Contract term.
        Upon receipt of a stop work notice, or upon receipt of a notice of termination (for cause or
        convenience), unless otherwise directed by USAC, Contractor shall, on the stop work date
        identified in the stop work or termination notice: (A) stop work, and cause its subcontractors,
        consultants or agents to stop work, to the extent specified in said notice; and (B) subject to the
        prior written approval of USAC, transfer title and/or applicable licenses to use, as appropriate,
        to USAC and deliver to USAC, or as directed by USAC, all materials, Data, work in process,
        completed work and other USAC Information or material produced in connection with, or
        acquired for, the work terminated. In the event of a stop work order, all deadlines in the Contract
        shall be extended on a day for day basis from such date, plus reasonable additional time, as
        agreed upon between the parties, acting in good faith, to allow Contractor to reconstitute its staff
        and resume the work

XII.     LIMITATION OF DAMAGES

        Except in cases of gross negligence or willful misconduct, in no event shall either party be liable
        for any consequential, special, incidental, indirect or punitive damages arising under or relating
        to the performance of the contract. USAC’s entire cumulative liability from any causes
        whatsoever (including indemnification obligations, if any), and regardless of the form of action
        or actions, whether in contract, warranty, or tort (including negligence), arising under the
        contract shall in no event exceed the lesser of Contractor’s actual, proven direct damages or the
        amounts paid to Contractor under the contract. The parties expressly acknowledge that the
        limitations and exclusions set forth in this provision have been the subject of active and complete
        negotiation between the parties and represent the parties’ agreement based upon the level of risk
        to the parties associated with their respective obligations under the contract and the payments
        provided hereunder to Contractor for its performance of the Services and Deliverables. All
        exclusions or limitations of damages contained in the contract, including, without limitation, the
        provisions of this section, shall survive expiration or termination of the Contract.


XIII.    CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION

         A. Confidential Information. Confidential Information includes, but is not limited to,
            information, Data, material, or communications in any form or format, whether tangible or
            intangible, spoken or written (collectively referred to hereafter as “Information”), that
            contains, reflects, or is derived from or based upon, or is related to:

                 1. Management, business, procurement or financial Information of either party, the
                    FCC or a USF stakeholder, including proprietary or commercial Information and
                    trade secrets that have not previously been publicly disclosed;


               Universal Service Administrative Co. | CISO Advisory Services | Request for Proposals (RFP)

                                                        Page 17
                                                                      Available for Public Use


       2. Information regarding USAC’s processes and procedures (including, but not
          limited to, program operational Information, Information regarding USAC’s
          administration of its programs, and Information regarding USAC’s processing of
          applications for program support);

       3. Information concerning USAC’s relationships with other vendors or contractors,
          the FCC, USF Stakeholders and financial institutions;

       4. Information marked to indicate disclosure limitations such as “Confidential
          Information,” “proprietary,” “privileged,” “not for public disclosure,” “work
          product,” etc.;

       5. Information compiled, prepared or developed by Contractor in the performance of
          the Contract; the foregoing shall not include Information that is already lawfully in
          the possession of the recipient party prior to the receipt of such Information;

       6. Any Information identified as confidential by the disclosing party; and

       7. Personally Identifiable Information (PII), any information about an individual that
          can be used to distinguish or trace an individual’s identity either alone or when
          combined with other information that is linked or linkable to a specific individual.
          Examples of PII include name, address, telephone number, date and place of birth,
          mother’s maiden name, biometric records, etc.

B. Non-Disclosure/Use/Irreparable Harm. It is anticipated that one of the parties (Disclosing
   Party) may disclose, or has disclosed, Confidential Information to the other party
   (Recipient). At all times during the term of the Contract and thereafter, the Recipient shall
   maintain the confidentiality of all Confidential Information and prevent its unauthorized
   disclosure, publication, dissemination, destruction, loss, or alteration. Recipient shall only
   use Confidential Information for a legitimate business purpose of USAC and in the
   performance of the Contract. Recipient acknowledges that the misappropriation,
   unauthorized use, or disclosure of Confidential Information would cause irreparable harm
   to the Disclosing Party and could cause irreparable harm to the integrity of the USF
   Programs.

C. Employee Access to Confidential Information. Recipient shall not disclose Confidential
   Information to partners, joint ventures, directors, employees, agents and subcontractors
   (sub-Recipient) unless absolutely necessary for a Recipient’s or sub-Recipient’s
   performance of the Contract, and if necessary, shall only disclose the Confidential
   Information necessary for sub-Recipient’s performance of its duties. As a pre-condition to
   access to Confidential Information, Recipient shall require sub-Recipients, including its


     Universal Service Administrative Co. | CISO Advisory Services | Request for Proposals (RFP)

                                              Page 18
                                                                             Available for Public Use

          employees and subcontractors, and the employees of any subcontractor, to sign a non-
          disclosure or confidentiality agreement containing terms no less restrictive than those set
          forth herein. The Disclosing Party may enforce such agreements, if necessary, as a third-
          party beneficiary.

       D. Contractor Enforcement of Confidentiality Agreement. Contractor must report, and
          describe in detail, any breach or suspected breach of the non-disclosure requirements set
          forth above to the USAC General Counsel immediately (i.e., within one (1) hour) upon
          becoming aware of the breach. Contractor will follow-up with the USAC General Counsel
          and provide information on when and how the breach occurred, who was involved, and
          what has been done to recover the Information.

       E. Exclusions. If requested to disclose Confidential Information by an authorized
          governmental or judicial body, Recipient must promptly notify the Disclosing Party of the
          request and to the extent that it may legally do so, Recipient must refrain from disclosure
          of the Confidential Information until the Disclosing Party has had sufficient time to take
          any action as it deems appropriate to protect the Confidential Information. In the event
          Confidential Information of USAC is requested, Recipient must notify USAC, with a copy
          to USAC’s General Counsel, of the request. Neither Contractor nor its subcontractors shall
          issue any public statement relating to or in any way disclosing any aspect of the Contract
          without the prior written consent of USAC. Notwithstanding anything herein to the
          contrary, USAC may, without notice to Contractor, provide the Contract, including
          Contractor’s proposal information, and any information or Data delivered, prepared or
          developed by Contractor in the performance of the Contract to the FCC or other
          governmental or judicial body, and may publicly disclose basic information regarding the
          Contract, e.g., name of Contractor, price, basis for selection, description of
          Services/Deliverables and any provisions necessary for USAC to justify actions taken with
          respect to the Contract.

XIV.   RETURN OF USAC INFORMATION

       A. “USAC Information” includes Information and Data provided by USAC to Contractor for
          use in the performance of the Contract, Data that is collected, developed or recorded by
          Contractor in the performance of the Contract, including without limitation, business and
          company personnel information, program procedures and program specific information,
          and Data that is created or derived from such Data. USAC Information is Confidential
          Information and subject to all requirements in Section C.XIV.

       B. Promptly upon the expiration or termination of the Contract, or such earlier time as USAC
          may direct, Contractor shall, at the direction of USAC, and at no additional cost to USAC,
          return or destroy all USAC Information, including all copies thereof, in the possession or
          under the control of Contractor. Contractor shall not withhold any USAC Information as


            Universal Service Administrative Co. | CISO Advisory Services | Request for Proposals (RFP)

                                                     Page 19
                                                                               Available for Public Use

            a means of resolving any dispute. To the extent that there is a dispute between Contractor
            and USAC, Contractor may make a copy of such USAC Information as is necessary and
            relevant to resolution of the dispute. Any such copies shall promptly be destroyed upon
            resolution of the dispute.

        C. USAC Information is provided to Contractor solely for the purpose of rendering the
           Services, and USAC Information or any part thereof shall not be sold, assigned, leased, or
           otherwise transferred to any third party by Contractor (except as required to perform the
           Services or as otherwise authorized in the Contract), commingled with non-USAC
           Information, or commercially exploited by or on behalf of Contractor, or its employees or
           agents. Promptly upon the expiration of the Contract term, or such earlier time as USAC
           may direct, Contractor shall, at the direction of USAC, and at no additional cost to USAC,
           return or destroy all copies of USAC Information in the possession or under the control of
           Contractor or its employees or any subcontractors or their employees. Contractor shall not
           withhold any USAC Information as a means of resolving any dispute. To the extent that
           there is a dispute between Contractor and USAC, Contractor may make a copy of such
           USAC Information as is necessary and relevant to resolution of the dispute. Any such
           copies shall promptly be destroyed upon resolution of the dispute.

XV.     INFORMATION SECURITY

       The Contractor shall establish and maintain safeguards to protect the confidentiality, integrity,
       and restricted availability of Confidential Information, including any PII, in its possession
       according to NIST, FISMA requirements, and the Office of Management and Budget (“OMB”)
       requirements. This includes all information that is sent to and received from USAC and USAC
       Stakeholders. The Contractor and its subcontractors shall ensure that their respective local area
       networks, servers, and personal computers are secure from unauthorized access from within or
       outside their respective organizations. The Contractor shall not store or otherwise maintain any
       USAC Confidential Information in the Cloud, or back-up and store USAC’s Confidential
       Information without first obtaining USAC’s written consent.

XVI.    MALICIOUS SOFTWARE

       Contractor represents and warrants that it shall use its best efforts to prevent the introduction
       into USAC’s network, software or systems (“USAC IT Systems”) of any Software, program,
       routine, device, or other undisclosed feature that is designed to delete, disable, deactivate,
       interfere with or otherwise harm USAC’s IT Systems or Data, or that is intended to provide
       unauthorized access or modifications (“Malicious Software”). Contractor agrees that if it
       introduces, or allows the introduction of Malicious Software into USAC’s IT Systems
       intentionally, negligently or by failure to maintain available safeguards, Contractor must, at no
       additional cost to USAC, eliminate, or reduce to the greatest extent possible, the effects of the
       Malicious Software, including restoring Data, and, if the Malicious Software causes a loss of


              Universal Service Administrative Co. | CISO Advisory Services | Request for Proposals (RFP)

                                                       Page 20
                                                                                Available for Public Use

        operational efficiency, loss of data or other damages, to mitigate and restore such losses, and to
        indemnify USAC for any damages.

XVII.    FISMA PROVISIONS

        The Contractor shall meet and comply with all USAC IT Security Policies and all applicable
        USAC, NIST, and FISMA requirements and other Government-wide laws and regulations for
        the protection and security of information systems and data.

        Safeguarding of Covered Contractor Information Systems:

        USAC’s data security strategy includes the requirement to ensure the security of data
        protection controls regardless of the location or the party responsible for those controls. As a
        Contractor, you serve a vital role to achieve this goal. Contractor shall apply the following
        minimum safeguarding requirements and procedures from NIST SP 800-171 “Protecting
        Controlled Unclassified Information in Nonfederal Systems and Organizations” to protect
        covered Contractor information systems and USAC Data. USAC may require a written
        response that may be an attestation of compliance, a submission of supporting document, or
        both. If USAC requests a written response, Contractor is required to submit an electronic
        copy of the document(s) confirming compliance within 10 calendar days. If there are any
        requirements that are out of scope or that cannot be complied with, those requirements must
        be fully explained with a business justification.

         1. Limit information system access to only authorized users, processes acting on behalf of
             authorized users, or devices (including other information systems). [AC-1, AC-2].*
         2. Limit information system access to only the types of transactions and functions that
             authorized users are permitted to execute. [AC-2].*
         3. Verify and control/limit connections to and use of external information systems. [AC-20].*
         4. Control information posted or processed on publicly accessible information systems. [AC-
             22].*
         5. Identify information system users, processes acting on behalf of users, or devices. [IA-2].*
         6. Authenticate (or verify) the identities of those users, processes, or devices, as a prerequisite
             to allowing access to organizational information systems. [IA-3].*
         7. Sanitize or destroy information system media containing USAC Information before
             disposal or release for reuse. [MP-2, MP-4, MP-6].*
         8. Limit physical access to organizational information systems, equipment, and the respective
             operating environments to only authorized individuals. [PE-2, PE-6].*
         9. Escort visitors and monitor visitor activity; maintain audit logs of physical access; and
             control and manage physical access devices. [PE-3].*
         10. Monitor, control, and protect organizational communications (i.e., information transmitted
             or received by organizational information systems) at the external boundaries and key
             internal boundaries of the information systems. [SC-7, SC-8].*


               Universal Service Administrative Co. | CISO Advisory Services | Request for Proposals (RFP)

                                                        Page 21
                                                                                     Available for Public Use

            11. Implement subnetworks for publicly accessible system components that are physically or
                logically separated from internal networks. [SC-7].*
            12. Identify, report, and correct information and information system flaws in a timely manner.
                [SI-2, SI-5].*
            13. Provide protection from malicious code at appropriate locations within organizational
                information systems. [SI-3].*
            14. Update malicious code protection mechanisms when new releases are available. [SI-3].*
            15. Perform periodic scans of the information system and real-time scans of files from external
                sources as files are downloaded, opened, or executed. [SI-3].*
            16. * Reference to the specific security control under the NIST SP 800-171 that is applicable
                for each requirement.                 NIST SP 800-171 can be found here:
                https://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/SpecialPublications/NIST.SP.800-171r1.pdf.

XVIII.       TECHNOLOGY CONSIDERATIONS
         Reserved for future use.
         For RFIs, RFPs, and/or contracts involving the acquisition of Commercial off-the-shelf (COTS)
         software:

         Commercial off-the-shelf (COTS) or Software as a Service (SaaS) software deployed in the cloud
         or on USAC’s on-premise infrastructure must satisfy the following requirements:

                •     The product must be able to utilize USAC’s instance of OKTA’s Identity and Access
                      Management software for user authentication.
                •     OKTA is a cloud-based Identity and Access Management product used by USAC.
                •     Any USAC data stored in a COTS/SaaS product database must be easily accessed by
                      USAC via standard web services or another standard access mechanism

         For RFIs, RFPs, and/or contracts involving the development of custom software for Universal
         Service Fund (USF) systems (Lifeline, High Cost, Rural Healthcare, Schools and Libraries,
         Contributors):

         Custom software developed for Universal Service Fund programs (Lifeline, High Cost, Rural
         Health Care, Schools and Libraries) shall reuse the USAC Technical Stack unless the contractor
         demonstrates that those components are unable to meet the requirements. Key components of
         USAC’s Technical Stack include the following:

                •     Java programming language
                •     OKTA (Identity and Access Management)
                •     Postgres (Relational Database Management System)
                •     Elastic Search, Logstash, Kibana
                •     Atlassian based tools (SDLC)
                •     Apache Tomcat (Application Servers)


                    Universal Service Administrative Co. | CISO Advisory Services | Request for Proposals (RFP)

                                                             Page 22
                                                                                  Available for Public Use


             •     Red Hat Enterprise Linux
             •     Business Intelligence, Reporting, Geographical Information System, and Data
                   Warehouse tools

      Further details of USAC’s technical stack will be provided during the down-selection process.

XIX.     PROPRIETARY RIGHTS

       Contractor agrees that all Data, Software, Deliverables, reports or other materials (collectively
       “Materials”) developed or conceived by Contractor and/or documented by Contractor in the
       performance of the Contract, as well as all modifications and improvements thereto and all other
       designs, discoveries and inventions, are USAC property and shall be deemed USAC Information
       pursuant to Section XV above and works made-for-hire for USAC within the meaning of the
       copyright laws of the United States. Accordingly, USAC shall be the sole and exclusive owner
       for all purposes for the use, distribution, exhibition, advertising and exploitation of such
       Materials or any part of them in any way and in all media and by all means throughout the
       universe in perpetuity.

       The Contractor shall not, without the prior written permission of the USAC Procurement Office,
       incorporate in Data delivered under the Contract any Data not first produced in the performance
       of the Contract unless the Contractor: (1) identifies the Data; and (2) grants to USAC, or acquires
       on USAC’s behalf, a license of the same scope as set forth earlier in this Section XIX.

XX.      RESPONSIBILITY FOR CONTRACTOR PERSONNEL

        Contractor personnel working on USAC premises are required to sign and agree to the terms of
        a Visitor Form provided by USAC. Contractor is responsible for any actions of its personnel,
        including any actions that violate law, are negligent or that constitute a breach of the Visitor
        Form and/or the Contract.

        Security Briefings. Before receiving access to IT resources under the Contract, Contractor
        personnel must receive a security briefing, which USAC will arrange, and complete any
        nondisclosure agreement required by the Contract.

XXI.     RECORD RETENTION

        During the term of the Contract and for three (3) years following final payment, the Contractor
        shall maintain and make available at its offices at all reasonable times, the records, materials,
        and other evidence relating to the Contract for examination, audit, or reproduction.




                 Universal Service Administrative Co. | CISO Advisory Services | Request for Proposals (RFP)

                                                          Page 23
                                                                                   Available for Public Use

XXII.     KEY PERSONNEL

         All Contractor employees assigned to the positions identified in Section B.IX are key personnel.
         The key personnel assigned to the Contract must remain in their respective positions throughout
         the term of the Contract, as applicable. USAC may terminate all or a part of the Contract if the
         Contractor changes the position, role, or time commitment of key personnel, or removes key
         personnel from the Contract, without USAC’s prior written approval. USAC may grant approval
         for changes in staffing of key personnel if it determines in its sole discretion, that:

              •     changes to, or removal of, key personnel is necessary due to extraordinary
                    circumstances (e.g., a key personnel’s illness, death, termination of employment, or
                    absence due to family leave), and

              •     the Contractor has resources (e.g., replacement personnel) with the requisite skills,
                    qualifications and availability to perform the role and duties of the outgoing personnel.

         Replacement personnel are considered key personnel and this Section XXII shall apply to their
         placement on and removal from the Contract.

XXIII.    INSURANCE

         At its own expense, Contractor shall maintain sufficient insurance in amounts required by law
         or appropriate for the industry, whichever is greater, to protect and compensate USAC from all
         risks and damages/injuries that may arise under the Contract, including as appropriate, public
         and commercial general liability, personal injury, property damage and employer’s liability and
         worker’s compensation insurance. Contractor shall produce evidence of such insurance upon
         request by USAC. Contractor shall provide written notice thirty (30) days prior to USAC in the
         event of cancellation of or material change in the policy.

XXIV.     CONFLICTS OF INTEREST

         It is essential that any Contractor providing Services or Deliverables in support of USAC’s
         administration of the USF maintain the same neutrality, both in fact and in appearance, and avoid
         any conflict of interest or even the appearance of a conflict of interest. For example, to the extent
         that Contractor, or any of its principals, has client, membership, financial and/or any other
         material affiliation with entities that participate in the federal USF in any respect, there may be
         actual, potential and/or apparent conflict(s) of interest. Contractor shall promptly notify USAC,
         with a copy to USAC’s General Counsel, in writing of any actual or potential conflicts of interest
         involving Contractor, or any circumstances that give rise to the appearance of a conflict of
         interest, and the means by which Contractor proposes to avoid, neutralize, or mitigate such
         conflicts. Contractor shall also notify USAC of any conflicts Contractor has with USAC
         vendors. Failure to provide adequate means to avoid, neutralize or mitigate any conflict of


                  Universal Service Administrative Co. | CISO Advisory Services | Request for Proposals (RFP)

                                                           Page 24
                                                                                  Available for Public Use

          interest may be the basis for termination of the Contract. By its execution hereof, the Contractor
          represents and certifies that it has not paid or promised to pay a gratuity, or offered current or
          future employment or consultancy, to any USAC or governmental employee in connection with
          the award. In order to maintain the required neutrality, Contractor must not advocate any policy
          positions with respect to the Programs or the USF during the term of the Contract. Neither the
          Contractor nor its subcontractors shall issue any public statement relating to or in any way
          disclosing any aspect of the Contract without the prior written consent of USAC.

  XXV.     INVALIDITY OF ANY PROVISION

          It is the intent of the Parties that the provisions of the Contract will be enforced to the fullest
          extent permissible, but that the unenforceability of any provision will not render unenforceable
          or impair the remainder of the Contract, which will be deemed amended, to delete or modify, as
          necessary, the invalid or unenforceable provisions. The Parties further agree to negotiate
          replacement provisions for any unenforceable term that are as close as possible to the original
          term and to change such original term only to the extent necessary to render the same valid and
          enforceable.

 XXVI.     WAIVER

          Any waiver by either party of a breach of any provision of the Contract shall not operate or be
          construed as a waiver of any subsequent breach by either party.

XXVII.     SEVERABILITY

          The invalidity or unenforceability of any provisions of the Contract shall not affect the validity
          or enforceability of any other provision of the Contract, which shall remain in full force and
          effect.

XXVIII.    CHOICE OF LAW / CONSENT TO JURISDICTION

          The Contract shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the District of
          Columbia (the term “laws” is to be construed as broadly as possible to include case law, statutes,
          regulations, orders, etc.) without regard to any otherwise applicable principle of conflicts of
          laws. Contractor agrees that all actions or proceedings arising in connection with the Contract
          shall be litigated exclusively in the State and, if applicable, Federal courts located in the District
          of Columbia (“Courts”). This choice of venue is intended to be mandatory and the parties waive
          any right to assert forum non conveniens or similar objection to venue. Each party hereby
          consents to in personam jurisdiction in the Courts. Contractor must submit all claims or other
          disputes to the Contracting Officer for informal resolution prior to initiating any action in the
          Courts and must work with USAC in good faith to resolve any disputed issues. A dispute over
          payment or performance, whether informal or in the Courts, shall not relieve Contractor of its


                 Universal Service Administrative Co. | CISO Advisory Services | Request for Proposals (RFP)

                                                          Page 25
                                                                                Available for Public Use

        obligation to continue performance of the Contract and Contractor shall proceed diligently with
        performance during any dispute over performance or payment.

XXIX.    USAC AND APPLICABLE LAWS

        USAC is not a Federal agency, a government corporation, a government-controlled corporation
        or other establishment in the Executive Branch of the United States Government. USAC is not
        a contractor to the Federal Government and the Contract is not a subcontract under a federal
        prime contract. USAC conducts its procurements in accordance with the terms of a
        Memorandum of Understanding with the FCC, which requires USAC and its Contractors to
        adhere to certain procurement-related provisions of the Code of Federal Regulations, 2 C.F.R.
        §§ 200.318-321, 200-323, 200.325-326 and App. II to C.F.R. Part 200 (collectively
        “Procurement Regulations”). The Contractor shall comply with the procurement standards and
        all applicable Federal, State and local laws, executive orders, rules and regulations applicable to
        its performance under the Contract.

XXX.     RIGHTS IN THE EVENT OF BANKRUPTCY

        All licenses or other rights granted under or pursuant to the Contract are, and shall otherwise be
        deemed to be, for purposes of Section 365(n) of the United States Bankruptcy Code, or any
        replacement provision therefore (the “Code”), licenses to rights to “intellectual property” as
        defined in the Code. The Parties agree that USAC, as licensee of such rights under this
        Contractor, shall retain and may fully exercise all of its rights and elections under the Code. The
        Parties further agree that, in the event of the commencement of bankruptcy proceedings by or
        against Contractor under the Code, USAC shall be entitled to retain all of its rights under the
        Contract and shall not, as a result of such proceedings, forfeit its rights to any Material, license,
        Software, Data or works made for hire.

XXXI.    NON-EXCLUSIVITY / INDEPENDENT CONTRACTOR

        Nothing herein shall be deemed to preclude USAC from retaining the services of other persons
        or entities undertaking the same or similar functions as those undertaken by the Contractor
        hereunder or from independently developing or acquiring goods or services that are similar to,
        or competitive with, the goods or services, as the case may be, contemplated under the Contract.

        Contractor acknowledges and agrees that it is an independent contractor to USAC and
        Contractor’s key personnel, employees, representatives, directors, officers, subcontractors and
        agents are not employees of USAC. USAC will not withhold or contribute to Social Security,
        workers’ compensation, federal or state income tax, unemployment compensation or other
        employee benefit programs on behalf of Contractor or Contractor personnel. Contractor shall
        indemnify and hold USAC harmless against any and all loss, liability, cost and expense
        (including attorneys’ fees) incurred by USAC as a result of USAC not withholding or making


               Universal Service Administrative Co. | CISO Advisory Services | Request for Proposals (RFP)

                                                        Page 26
                                                                                  Available for Public Use

          such payments. Neither Contractor nor any of Contractor’s personnel are entitled to participate
          in any of the employee benefit plans of, or otherwise obtain any employee benefits from, USAC.
          USAC has no obligation to make any payments to Contractor’s key personnel, employees,
          representatives, directors, officers, subcontractors and agents. Contractor shall not hold
          herself/himself out as an employee of USAC and Contractor has no authority to bind USAC
          except as expressly permitted hereunder.

XXXII.     TEMPORARY EXTENSION OF SERVICES

          USAC may require continued performance of any Contract services within the limits and at the
          rates specified in the Contract. USAC may extend the services more than once, but the total
          extension of performance hereunder shall not exceed six (6) months. The USAC Procurement
          representative may exercise an option to extend by written notice to the Contractor within ten
          (10) days prior to expiration of the then current term.

XXXIII.    NOTICES

          All notices, consent, approval or other communications required or authorized by the Contract
          shall be given in writing and shall be:
           (a) personally delivered,
           (b) mailed by registered or certified mail (return receipt requested) postage prepaid,
           (c) sent by overnight delivery service (with a receipt for delivery), or
           (d) sent by electronic mail with a confirmation of receipt returned by recipient’s electronic mail
               server to such party at the following address:

            If to USAC:
            Vice President of Procurement and Strategic Sourcing, Universal Service Administrative Co.
            700 12th Street, NW, Suite 900
            Washington, DC 20005
            Email: To the designated USAC Contract Officer for this procurement, with a copy to
                 usacprocurement@usac.org.

            If to Contractor: To the address or email set forth in the Contractor’s proposal in response to
                 the Solicitation.

XXXIV.     SURVIVAL

          All provisions that logically should survive the expiration or termination of the Contract shall
          remain in full force and effect after expiration or early termination of the term of the Contract.
          Without limitation, all provisions relating to return of USAC information, confidentiality
          obligations, proprietary rights, and indemnification obligations shall survive the expiration or
          termination of the Contract.


                 Universal Service Administrative Co. | CISO Advisory Services | Request for Proposals (RFP)

                                                          Page 27
                                                                                 Available for Public Use


XXXV.     EXECUTION / AUTHORITY

         The Contract may be executed by the parties hereto on any number of separate counterparts and
         counterparts taken together shall be deemed to constitute one and the same instrument. A
         signature sent via facsimile or portable document format (PDF) shall be as effective as if it was
         an original signature. Each person signing the Contract represents and warrants that they are
         duly authorized to sign the Contract on behalf of their respective party and that their signature
         binds their party to all provisions hereof.

XXXVI.    INDEMNITY

         Contractor shall defend, indemnify and hold harmless USAC from and against, any costs,
         liabilities, damages or expenses (including reasonable attorneys’ fees) arising out of or relating
         to: (1) claims for personal injuries, death or damage to tangible personal or real property to the
         extent proximately caused by the negligent acts or negligent omissions of Contractor or its
         employees, agents, consultants, or Subcontractors in connection with this Contract; and (2)
         claims of any nature whatsoever to the extent caused by the violation of Contract terms,
         negligence, illegal or intentional wrongful acts or omissions of Contractor or its employees,
         agents, consultants, or Subcontractors in connection with the performance of the Services.




                Universal Service Administrative Co. | CISO Advisory Services | Request for Proposals (RFP)

                                                         Page 28
                                                                        Available for Public Use


SECTION D:
Attachments
Attachment List:
     • Attachment 1: Bid Sheet
     • Attachment 2: Invoice Schedule
     • Attachment 3: Confidentiality Agreement
     • Attachment 4: Key Personnel Resumes




  Universal Service Administrative Co. | CISO Advisory Services | Request for Proposals (RFP)
                                               Page 29
                                                                            Available for Public Use


SECTION E:
Instructions and Evaluation Criteria
I.      GENERAL

  A. CONTRACT TERMS AND CONDITIONS

     The Contract awarded as a result of this RFP will be governed by, and subject to, the
     requirements, Terms and Conditions set forth in RFP sections A, B, C, and D and any
     attachments listed in section D (hereafter collectively referred to as the “Terms and
     Conditions”). Offeror’s submission of a proposal constitutes its agreement to the Terms and
     Conditions and their precedence over any other terms, requirements, or conditions proposed
     by Offeror.

     The Offeror’s proposal shall identify deviations from, or revisions, exceptions or additional
     terms (collectively “exceptions”) to the Terms and Conditions, but only if such exceptions
     are clearly identified in a separate Attachment B to Volume II, “Exceptions to RFP
     Terms.” Proposals that include material exceptions to the Terms and Conditions may be
     considered unacceptable and render Offeror ineligible for award unless the Offeror
     withdraws or modifies any unacceptable exceptions prior to USAC’s selection of the
     successful Offeror for award. USAC will only consider changes or additions to the RFP
     Terms and conditions that are included in Offeror’s proposal. Exceptions to the Terms and
     Conditions will only be accepted during proposal submission and will not be reviewed or
     considered during the time of Contract negotiation. After selection of the awardee, USAC
     will not consider or negotiate any exceptions to the Terms and Conditions.

     B. PERIOD FOR ACCEPTANCE OF OFFERS

  The Offeror agrees to hold the fixed service category rates in its offer firm for 120 calendar
  days from the date specified for receipt of offers, unless another time period is specified in an
  addendum to the solicitation.

  Proposals must:
     • Concisely address USAC’s requirements, as set forth in Section B.VIII. Performance
         Requirements and Scope of Work (Section B and should not contain a significant
         amount of corporate boilerplate marketing information.
     • Be submitted to USAC Procurement Department, no later than 11:00 AM ET on
         April 3, 2020, 2020 (Proposal Due Date).
     • Be submitted in the form of one electronic copy submitted to rfp@usac.org. The
        subject line for all email communication related to this solicitation should only state
        the Solicitation Number, IT-19-086, of this RFP.



      Universal Service Administrative Co. | CISO Advisory Services | Request for Proposals (RFP)
                                                   Page 30
                                                                              Available for Public Use



       C. ANTICIPATED PROPOSAL SCHEDULE

                 DATE                EVENT
                 3/5/20              RFP Released
                 3/13/20             Questions Due to USAC by 11:00 AM ET at rfp@usac.org
                 3/19/20             Answers posted by USAC
                 4/3/20              Proposal Due to USAC by 11:00 AM ET at rfp@usac.org

       To be timely, Offeror’s proposal must be received by USAC by the Proposal Due Date at the
       email address specified above. Any offer, modification, revision, or withdrawal of an offer
       received at the USAC office designated in the solicitation after the Proposal Due Date and
       Time is “late” and will not be considered by USAC, unless USAC determines, in its sole
       discretion, that (1) circumstances beyond the control of Offeror prevented timely submission,
       (2) consideration of the offer is in the best interest of USAC, or (3) the offer is the only proposal
       received by USAC.

       D. SUBMISSION OF QUESTIONS

       USAC will only accept written questions regarding the RFP. All questions must be emailed
       to rfp@usac.org no later than March 13, 2020, 11:00 AM Eastern Time (ET). USAC plans to
       post all questions and responses under this procurement on our website on January 10, 2020
       5:00 PM ET.

       E. AMEND, REVISE OR CANCEL RFP

      USAC reserves the right to amend, revise or cancel this RFP at any time at the sole discretion
      of USAC and no legal or other obligations are assumed by USAC by virtue of the issuance of
      this RFP, including payment of any proposal costs or expenses, or any commitment to procure
      the services sought herein.

 II.       CONTRACT AWARD

       USAC intends to evaluate offers and make a single award. USAC may reject any or all offers
       if such action is in the public’s or USAC’s interest; accept other than the lowest offers; and
       waive informalities and minor irregularities in offers received.

III.       IDENTIFICATION OF CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION

       The proposal shall clearly and conspicuously identify information contained in the proposal
       that the Offeror contends is Confidential Information. See Section C.XIV.

IV.        PROPOSAL VOLUMES COVER PAGE

        Universal Service Administrative Co. | CISO Advisory Services | Request for Proposals (RFP)
                                                     Page 31
                                                                           Available for Public Use


 Each volume of Offeror’s proposal must contain a cover page. On the cover page, please
 include:
      • The name of the Offeror’s organization,
      • The Offeror’s contact name and title,
      • The Offeror’s contact information (address, telephone number, email address, website
          address),
      • The Offeror’s data universal numbering system (“DUNS”) number,
      • The date of submittal,
      • A statement verifying the proposal is valid for a period of 120 days, and
      • The signature of a duly authorized Offeror’s representative.

V.     PROPOSAL CONTENT

 Each proposal shall be comprised of the following four (4) volumes:

     A. CORPORATE INFORMATION (VOLUME I)

This volume must include:

     1. A cover page, as outlined above.

     2. An executive summary summarizing all key features of the proposal, including the
        identification of any subcontractors and affiliated individuals or firms that will assist the
        Offeror in performing the Contract.

     3. Pricing information should not appear in Volume I.

     4. A statement regarding any known conflicts of interest.

          a. USAC procurements are conducted with complete impartiality and with no
             preferential treatment. USAC procurements require the highest degree of public
             trust and an impeccable standard of conduct. Offerors must strictly avoid any
             conflict of interest or even the appearance of a conflict of interest, unless USAC has
             otherwise approved an acceptable mitigation plan.

          b. Offerors must identify any actual or potential conflicts of interest including current
             USAC vendors involving the Offeror or any proposed subcontractor, or any
             circumstances that give rise to the appearance of a conflict of interest, and the means
             by which it proposes to avoid, neutralize, or mitigate such conflicts. Offerors shall
             identify such conflicts or potential conflicts or appearance issues to USAC and
             provide detailed information regarding the nature of the conflict. Examples of
             potential conflicts include, but are not limited to: (1) any ownership, control or other
             business or contractual relationship(s), including employment relationships,
             between the Offeror (or proposed subcontractor) and any USF Stakeholder; (2) an
             Offeror has a direct personal or familial relationship with a USAC or FCC employee;
     Universal Service Administrative Co. | CISO Advisory Services | Request for Proposals (RFP)
                                                  Page 32
                                                                      Available for Public Use


         (3) a former employee of USAC or FCC who had access to confidential
         procurement-related information works for the Offeror; (4) a USAC or FCC
         employee receives any type of compensation from the Offeror, or has an agreement
         to receive such compensation in the future; (5) Offeror has communications with a
         USAC or FCC employee regarding future employment following the issuance of the
         RFP for this procurement; (6) any employment or consultation arrangement
         involving USAC or FCC employees and the Offeror or any proposed subcontractor;
         and (7) any ownership or control interest in the Offeror or any proposed
         subcontractor that is held by an FCC or USAC employee. Offerors must also
         identify any participation by the Offeror, or any proposed subcontractor(s) or
         personnel associated with the Offeror, in any of the universal service programs. The
         requirement in this Section E.V.A applies at all times until Contract execution.

     c. Offerors shall propose specific and detailed measures to avoid, neutralize, or
        mitigate actual, potential and/or apparent conflicts of interest raised by the
        affiliations and services described above. If USAC determines that Offeror’s
        proposed mitigation plan does not adequately avoid, neutralize or mitigate any actual
        or potential conflict of interest, or the appearance of a conflict of interest, Offeror
        will not be eligible for award of a contract.

       d. All Offerors are advised that this RFP and any resulting contract is subject to the
          terms of the Confidentiality Agreement contained in this RFP as Attachment 3.
          This Confidentiality Agreement must be executed and submitted along with any
          bid/proposal for this RFP.

B. TECHNICAL (VOLUME II)

This volume must include:

     1. A cover page, as outlined above.

     2. A summary detailing Offeror’s experience providing CISO advisory services in the
        capacity described in Section B of this RFP.

     3. An in-depth discussion of Offeror’s technical approach to providing the services
        listed in Section B.VI., along with a clear statement of whether or not the Offeror’s
        performance of the Contract will comply with all requirements, Terms and
        Conditions set forth in the RFP. Offerors must submit a detailed response to this
        RFP. The Offeror must clearly state whether it will comply with all requirements
        and Terms and Conditions set forth in the RFP and provide detailed information
        about how it will fulfill the requirements of the RFP. Any deviations from, or
        exceptions to, the requirements or Terms or Conditions contained in this RFP must
        be clearly identified in an Attachment B to Volume II.

             Note: Offers that include material deviations from, or take material exceptions
Universal Service Administrative Co. | CISO Advisory Services | Request for Proposals (RFP)
                                             Page 33
                                                                      Available for Public Use


                  to, RFP requirements, Terms or Conditions will be evaluated as technically
                  unacceptable and will be ineligible for award unless USAC subsequently
                  amends the RFP to modify the requirements or, if discussions will be held,
                  decides to address the deviations/exceptions during discussions and thereby
                  resolves the deviations/exceptions are thereby resolved.

     4. Technical proposals that merely repeat the requirements set forth in the RFP and
        state that Contractor “will perform the statement of work” or similar verbiage will
        be considered technically unacceptable and will not receive further consideration.
        USAC is interested only in proposals that demonstrate the Contractor’s expertise in
        performing engagements of this type as illustrated by the Offeror’s description of
        how it proposes to perform the requirements set forth in this RFP.

     5. Capabilities. Describe Offeror’s capabilities for performing the Contract, including
        personnel resources and management capabilities. If applicable, describe how
        subcontractors or partners are used and how rates are determined when using
        subcontractors. Provide a list of firms, if any, that will be used.

     6. Experience. Describe your firm’s experience with providing the related services as
        detailed in Section B of this RFP. Provide examples of projects and personnel to
        include project scope, size, and complexity, and types of positions with length of
        assignments.

7. Key Personnel. Identify by name all key personnel. Describe the technical knowledge
   and experience of proposed personnel in the requested services with respect to, but not
   limited to, experience and qualifications including depth of knowledge, expertise and
   number of years. It is preferred that the bidder provide two (2) clients in which the
   proposed held a similar position. Indicate any other personnel that will be assigned to
   USAC and his/her role on the contract. Provide a brief summary of each of these
   professional staff members’ qualifications to include education and all relevant
   experience.


            a. Submit resumes/biographies for all key personnel, as an attachment
               (Attachment 4) to the technical volume, no longer than two (2) pages in
               length per resume.

            b. If Contractor, at the time of proposal and prior to the award of the Contract,
               has information that any such key personnel anticipate terminating his or her
               employment or affiliation with Contractor, Contractor shall identify such
               personnel and include the expected termination date in the proposal.




Universal Service Administrative Co. | CISO Advisory Services | Request for Proposals (RFP)
                                             Page 34
                                                                      Available for Public Use


C. PAST PERFORMANCE EVALUATION (VOLUME III)

This volume must include:
   1. A cover page, as outlined above.

     2. A list of three (3) current or recently completed contracts (no older than 5 years from
        the date of the solicitation) similar in scope to those required by this solicitation. Each
        entry on the list must contain:

             a.       the client’s name;
             b.       the project title;
             c.       the period of performance;
             d.       the Contract number;
             e.       the Contract value;
             f.       a primary point of contact (including the telephone number and email
                      address for each point of contact, if available);
             g.       a back-up point of contact.

     If a back-up point of contact is not available, please explain how USAC may contact the
     client in the event the primary point of contact fails to respond.

             a. For each past performance, provide a description of the relevant performance
                and the name and telephone number for USAC to contact for past
                performance information for each project discussed. A past performance
                description will consist of:

                      (i)      an overview of the engagement;
                      (ii)     a description of the scope of work performed;
                      (iii)    its relevance to this effort;
                      (iv)     the results achieved.

                  This is the time to identify any unique characteristics of the project, problems
                  encountered, and corrective actions taken. Each overview shall not exceed
                  one (1) page.

             b. USAC will attempt to contact past performance references identified in the
                proposal for confirmation of the information contained in the proposal and/or
                will transmit a past performance questionnaire to the contacts identified in the
                Offeror’s proposals. Although USAC will follow-up with the contacts, the
                Offeror, not USAC, is responsible for ensuring that the questionnaire is
                completed and returned by the specified date in USAC’s transmittal. If USAC
                is unable to reach or obtain a reference for the project, USAC may not
                consider the Contract in an evaluation of past performance.


Universal Service Administrative Co. | CISO Advisory Services | Request for Proposals (RFP)
                                             Page 35
                                                                             Available for Public Use


 D. PRICE (VOLUME IV)

 This volume must include:

       1. A cover page, as outlined above.

       2. Completed pricing information in Attachment 1: Bid Sheet.

                a. The fixed price must be fully burdened and must include wages, overhead,
                   general and administrative expenses, taxes and profit.

       3.     Attachment 2: Invoice Schedule
               a. An invoice for the Initial Contract Term which includes milestones,
                   deliverables, and estimated time periods based on the firm fixed price of the
                   initial Contract term. The Contractor’s invoice schedule will be
                   incorporated into the Contract once approved by USAC. Furthermore, as a
                   condition to exercising the option periods under the Contract, the parties shall
                   agree on an invoice schedule for the option period to include milestones,
                   deliverables, and estimated time periods based on the firm fixed price of the
                   option period.

 E. PAGE COUNT LIMITS

 Page count, for each Volume including the Cover page, may not exceed the below:

       1. Volume I – Corporate Information; may not exceed three (3) pages, including Cover
          page and Attachment 3 (Confidentiality Agreement).

       2. Volume II – Technical; may not exceed eight (8) pages including Cover page; however
          excluding Attachment 4 (Resumes)

       3. Volume III – Past Performance Information; may not exceed four (4) pages, including
          Cover page.

       4. Volume IV – Price; may not exceed two (2) pages, including Cover page.

 Any proposals received exceeding the page count, will be considered technically unacceptable
 and may not receive further consideration.

VI.      EVALUATION

      A. EVALUATION FACTORS

      USAC will award a single contract resulting from this solicitation to the responsible Offeror
      whose offer conforming to the solicitation will be most advantageous to USAC, price and
       Universal Service Administrative Co. | CISO Advisory Services | Request for Proposals (RFP)
                                                    Page 36
                                                                        Available for Public Use


 other factors considered. The following factors, which are listed in descending order of
 importance, shall be used to compare offers and select the awardee – technical, past
 performance, and price. When combined, the technical and past performance factors are
 significantly more important than price.

  1. Technical: The technical sub-factors listed below in descending order of importance:

           a.   Technical Approach
           b.   Capabilities
           c.   Experience
           d.   Key Personnel

  2. Past Performance: Past performance information will be evaluated to assess the risks
     associated with an Offeror’s performance of this effort, considering the relevance,
     how recent the project is (no older than 5 years from the date of the solicitation), and
     quality of the Offeror’s past performance on past or current contracts for the same or
     similar services. Past performances The Offeror’s past performance will be evaluated
     based on the Offeror’s discussion of its past performance for similar efforts,
     information obtained from past performance references (including detailed references
     for the Offeror’s proposed teaming partner(s) and/or subcontractor(s), as applicable)
     and information that may be obtained from any other sources (including government
     databases and contracts listed in the Offeror’s proposal that are not identified as
     references).

  3. Price Evaluation: USAC will evaluate price based on the firm fixed price, listed in the
     Bid Sheet. While price is an evaluation factor, USAC may not necessarily award a
     Contract to the lowest priced Offeror. USAC further recognizes that the size of a
     company, its name-recognition, geographical offerings and the expertise/experience of
     staff impacts the price of the service category rates offered by the firms, thus making
     comparisons of differently situated firms less meaningful. Therefore, when considering
     rates, USAC will use the rates of similarly situated companies for reasonableness and
     comparison purposes. Price may become a more important selection factor if the
     ratings for the non-price factors are the same or very close to the same. In addition to
     considering the total prices of the Offerors when making the award, USAC will also
     evaluate whether the proposed prices are realistic (i.e., reasonably sufficient to perform
     the requirements) and reasonable. Proposals containing prices that are determined to
     be unrealistic or unreasonable will not be considered for award.

B. DOWN-SELECT PROCESS

 USAC may determine that the number of proposals received in response to this RFP are too
 numerous to efficiently conduct a full evaluation of all evaluation factors prior to establishing
 a competitive range. In such case, USAC may conduct a down-select process to eliminate
 Offerors, prior to discussions, from further consideration based on a comparative analysis of
 Offerors proposals, with primary focus on the price proposal, but USAC may, in its sole
  Universal Service Administrative Co. | CISO Advisory Services | Request for Proposals (RFP)
                                               Page 37
                                                                        Available for Public Use


 discretion, consider other factors such as failure to follow instructions as provided, quality of
 proposal, technical capabilities and past performance. Proposals that include proposed prices
 that are significantly higher than the median proposed price for all Offerors may be excluded
 from the competition without evaluation under the other evaluation factors. Proposals that
 contain prices that are unrealistically low in terms of sufficiency to perform the Contract may
 also be excluded from the competition.

C. RESPONSIBILITY DETERMINATION

 USAC will only award a contract to a responsible Offeror. USAC will make a responsibility
 determination based on any available information, including information submitted in an
 Offeror’s proposal. In making a responsibility determination, USAC will consider whether:

  1. the Offeror has sufficient resources to perform the Contract;

  2. the Offeror has a satisfactory record of performance, integrity and business ethics;

  3. the Offeror has the accounting systems and internal controls, quality assurance processes
     and organizational structure and experience necessary to assure that contract work will
     be properly performed and accurately invoiced;

  4. the Offeror has the facilities, technical and personnel resources required to perform the
     Contract; and

  5. The Offeror is not excluded from Government contracting, as listed on the excluded
     parties list in https://www.sam.gov.




  Universal Service Administrative Co. | CISO Advisory Services | Request for Proposals (RFP)
                                               Page 38
