                                               City Of Cheney
                                      Cindy Niemeier, Finance Director
                                                    609 Second Street
                                                  Cheney, WA 99004
                                                        509-498-9215
                                    Email: cniemeier@cityofcheney.org




               REQUEST FOR PROPOSAL
TO PROVIDE INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY SUPPORT SERVICES



                   CITY OF CHENEY
           REQUEST FOR PROPOSAL 18-001
                ISSUED April 26, 2018
       PROPOSALS ARE DUE 5:00 p.m., JUNE 1, 2018



         SUBMIT COMPLETED APPLICATION TO:

                     City of Cheney
                  Finance Department
               Attention: Cindy Niemeier
                   609 Second Street
                  Cheney, WA 99004



                Phone: (509) 498-9209
              cniemeier@cityofcheney.org
                 www.cityofcheney.org
             INSTRUCTIONS AND ADMINISTRATIVE REQUIREMENTS

I.     Issuing Agency

       This Request for Proposal (RFP) is issued by the City of Cheney, Washington,
       subsequently referred to as the “City.”

II.    IT Services Request for Proposal (RFP) Specifications

       To contract with the City of Cheney, applicants must be an established legal
       entity, which includes possessing a Federal Tax Identification Number, as
       required by IRS regulations, and a Uniform Business Identification Number,
       required by the Washington State Department of Revenue.

III.   Procurement Schedule

       The following Time Table will be utilized for the awarding of a contract for
       the City’s IT services and support:

       Proposal Application Available              April 26, 2018

       RFP Applicant’s Inquiries Due               May 14, 2018 by 11:00 a.m.

       Answers to Applicants’ Inquiries Released   May 18, 2018

       Deadline for Submission                     June 1, 2018 at 5:00 p.m.

       Evaluation and Negotiations Completed       June 15, 2018

       Contract Award Recommended to Council June 26, 2018

       Contract Services Begin                     July 15, 2018

IV.    General Instructions

       a. Applicants’ Inquiries

          All applicants’ inquiries are due on Monday, May 14, 2018 by 11:00 a.m.
          Questions may be sent via email to: cniemeier@cityofcheney.org. No
          inquiries, written or oral, will be accepted after this date.

                                         2
   In order for all potential Contractors to be treated equally, all questions
   raised regarding the Request for Proposal process and the responses
   made by the City of Cheney will be made available to all applicants.

   Written responses to questions received through Monday, May 14, 2018
   will be posted online at www.cityofcheney.org no later than May 18,
   2018. Any follow-up questions will be due by May 23, 2018 with answers
   posted to the website by 5:00 p.m. May 25, 2018. No further questions
   will be taken after that time.

b. Deadline for Submittal

   All proposal documents must be completed and received no later than
   9:00 a.m. Friday, June 1, 2018 at the following address:

      City of Cheney
      Attention: Cindy Niemeier
      609 Second Street
      Cheney, WA 99004

c. Format

   Proposal documents may be submitted in any reasonable format, as long
   as all information requested is included. See “Submittal Requirements”
   below.

   Proposers shall submit one complete original and two (2) copies of the
   original proposal.

d. Period of Performance

   The period of performance for contracts issued as a result of this RFP
   process will be for a five-year period (beginning on July 15, 2018 and
   ending on July 14, 2023). Mutually agreed-upon annual renewals may be
   made for three (3) one-year periods.




                                   3
                           GUIDELINES FOR APPLICANTS

I.     Introduction

       The City of Cheney, Washington, is soliciting proposals from qualified
       professional vendors for Information Technology support services. The
       qualified vendor will maintain and improve information technology (IT)
       effectiveness, enhance its quality of services, minimize down time and
       support costs, ensure security of data, and maximize return on investment
       in IT. The City does not have a professional IT staff. The vendor will work in
       conjunction with City of Cheney Finance Director as the main point of contact
       for the general city infrastructure, equipment, and employee needs and the
       Police Director of Communications for all law enforcement related
       equipment and requirements.

II.    Background Information

       The City of Cheney uses a wide variety of systems including but not limited
       to VMware, Windows SQL, Windows Server 2008, Windows Server 2012 R2,
       Windows Server 2016 Standard, Cisco, IBM AS400, ShoreTel IP phone
       system, NetMotion Server, 20 city wide iPads, 25 windows based tablets, and
       Windows based desktop operating systems. The City uses Fortinet firewalls
       and VPN for remote server contact, and Net Motion VPN is used for mobile
       vehicle units at the Police Department. The City has approximately 110
       employees working at 9 locations within the city that require support and
       are connected through a fiber backbone. The City has approximately 130
       user workstations, 16 Windows Servers, and 2 IBM servers.

III.   Scope of Work

       The City of Cheney desires a fully outsourced IT management provider to
       provide proactive maintenance, support, and other IT related functions. The
       following details the minimum services to be provided to the City of Cheney
       in the area of information services:

       a. Initial Assessment

          With the assistance of city staff, compile an inventory of all information
          technology related assets, assess system assets, and make
          recommendations for improved city-wide IT system performance.

                                          4
b. Desktop Applications Support

   Perform basic support functions including installation of PC’s, laptops,
   printers, and software; diagnose and correct desktop application
   problems; configure laptops and desktops for standard applications; and
   identify and correct hardware problems, performing advanced
   troubleshooting. Assist designated City personnel with hardware and
   software purchases as needed. Assist with warranty and other technical
   support.

c. Server Administration Services

   Manage computer network and associated hardware, software,
   communications, and operating system necessary for the quality,
   security, performance, availability, recoverability, and reliability of the
   system. Monitor server performance and capacity management services.
   Ensure scheduled preventive maintenance for equipment is promptly
   performed; develop back-up plans and procedural documentation for
   active servers to include the 6 month Washington State Digital archive
   backup. Confidentiality of information is vital. The selected vendor and
   their employees will be required to sign and adhere to a confidentiality
   clause that information in the system must remain confidential under
   penalty of law. All vendor employees with access to the City network will
   be required to undergo fingerprint background checks at the vendor’s
   expense, training, and be expected to maintain CJIS security standards at
   all times.

d. Network Administration Services

   Scope of activity includes all City network equipment including switches,
   firewalls, routers, IP phone system and other security devices. Manage
   backup and disaster recovery systems. The scope also includes primary
   installation and maintenance of printers, network copiers/scanners,
   group policy, software updates, etc. as deemed necessary. Monitor
   network performance and capacity management services. Maintain city-
   wide network diagram.




                                   5
e. Security

   Maintenance of virus/malware detection and spam reduction programs
   on City servers, email and all other City computers and laptops. Perform
   security audits as requested and notify City personnel immediately of
   suspected breaches of security. Assist the City of Cheney in complying
   with best practices as well as ISB and CJIS requirements.

f. Strategic Planning

   Provide technical leadership for all technology issues.            Make
   recommendations for future purchasing and technology needs. Keep City
   up to date on new technology changes and uses that will enable the City
   to increase efficiency and reduce costs. Install equipment including new
   servers, software, and hardware and transfer data when required. Assist
   with policy formulation and application.

g. Help Desk Support

   End user support must be timely, friendly, and professional. Urgent and
   emergent support must be available 24/7/365. Routine support must be
   available Monday – Friday from 7:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.

h. End User Training

   Provide training for various technology as needed. This would normally
   be for common software or hardware used in a business setting or new
   equipment installed. This can be at the request of the City or when a need
   is identified by the vendor.

i. Onsite Support

   Provide regular scheduled and dedicated onsite support sixteen (16)
   hours each month to address city-wide and/or departmental hardware
   and software issues. Additional onsite support may be needed for major
   projects.




                                  6
      j. Public Records

         Provide assistance in public records key word searches through active and
         archived e-mail and network files of current and former employees.
         Preserve original metadata of e-mails and network files while saving
         contents to electronic files. Vendor must be knowledgeable in
         Washington State Public Record Laws.

      k. Computer Inventory and Disposal

         Vendor must provide monthly hardware inventory reporting and proper
         and legal electronic disposal of surplus electronic equipment.

IV.   Submittal Requirements

      The following information shall be required in the RFP submittal:

            • Letter of Transmittal, to include:

               o Company name, address and telephone number of the firm
                 submitting the proposal.

               o Copy of current W-9.

               o Briefly state your understanding of the services to be performed
                 and make a positive commitment to provide the services as
                 specified.

               o Provide a statement which includes the language “proposal and
                 cost schedule shall be valid and binding for ninety (90) days
                 following proposal due date and will become part of the
                 contract that is negotiated with the City.”

            • General Vendor Information, to include:

               o Length of time in business.

               o Total number of clients and total number of public sector
                 clients.

                                        7
   o Number of full-time personnel and number specifically assigned
     for customer support. Identify names and major certifications
     of key personnel who will actually provide the information
     technology services. Summarize the experience and technical
     expertise of these staff. The local availability of the staff
     providing these services will be an important consideration.

   o Location of the office that would service our account.

• Describe your approach to providing these services and your
  methodology for providing ongoing support.

• Provide the name, title, address, and contact information of three
  (3) references of clients for whom you have provided similar
  services. Please provide information referencing the actual
  services provided, customer size (number of users), and the length
  of time you have provided services to this client.

• Support Services – Please answer the following:

   o Is help desk support available?

   o When is support available? (Indicate xx a.m. to xx p.m. and the
     days of the week.)

   o How are charges for support structures documented and
     tracked?

   o Describe your problem escalation process, including:

       Initial problem identification.

       Determination of priority and severity of problem.

       Steps for resolving problem escalation when a solution is not
        forthcoming or an implemented solution is unsatisfactory.

   o Indicate your response time goals and your statistics regarding
     meeting that goal.

                            8
           • As a municipal government, City departments include those of
             Police, Fire, Light, Water, and Wastewater. Explain your familiarity
             and experience in the support of the specialized technology
             requirements of these departments. With the understanding that
             these departments operate on a 24/7, 365 days per year schedule,
             what would your availability be in the event of any technology
             issues requiring immediate attention during any non-routine
             business hours?

           • Beyond the scope of the RFP, what services (related or otherwise)
             does your organization provide that could benefit and/or may be
             of interest to the City?

           • Cost of Services:

              o The proposal must include a fee schedule that indicates either
                hourly rates or a flat monthly rate for the proposed services.

              o Describe how your services are priced, and any specific pricing
                you are able to provide.

              o Define any additional charges (e.g. travel expenses).

              o Define any tiers of service and costs associated with those tiers.

V.   Evaluation and Criteria Process

     Staff will make a recommendation to the City Council for their review and
     award of the contract. Staff will evaluate and rate each submittal based upon
     the following criteria:

                         Evaluation Table                % of Points
         Experience & personnel experience                    25%
         Understanding of the City’s needs and                25%
         services to be provided
         Compatibility with end users and City staff          10%
         needs
         Satisfaction of clients/end users                     5%
         Availability                                          5%
         Cost                                                 30%

                                        9
VI.    Contract

       The City anticipates a five-year contract that will be renewable for an
       addition (3) three one-year periods. Renewal of the contract will require City
       Council reauthorization. All fees should be set for an annual term and clearly
       state that in the proposal. The City expects all submitting firms to consent
       to the City Scope of Work and Specifications. Exceptions desired must be
       noted in the proposal submittal. The City reserves the right to revise the
       stated contract terms and conditions prior to contract signature.

VII.   Termination of Contract

       The contract may be terminated by mutual agreement in writing or it may be
       terminated at any time by either party by delivery of a sixty (60) day written
       notice to the other party.

VIII. Inquiries

       Inquiries regarding this RFP should be directed to:
          City of Cheney
          RFP-18-001 - IT Services
          Attention: Cindy Niemeier
          609 Second Street
          Cheney, WA 99004

          Phone: (509) 498-9215
          Email: cniemeier@cityofcheney.org

IX.    Submission Instructions

       The City reserves the right to request additional written or oral information
       to supplement all written statements of qualifications or proposals.

       Submit all material no later than June 1, 2018 at 5:00 p.m. to:
          City of Cheney
          RFP-18-001 - IT Services
          Attention: Cindy Niemeier
          609 Second Street
          Cheney, WA 99004


                                         10
X.     RFP Amendments

       The City reserves the right to change the schedule or issue amendments to
       the RFP at any time. The City also reserves the right to cancel or reissue the
       RFP.

XI.    Vendor’s Cost to Develop Proposal

       Costs for developing proposals in response to the RFP are entirely the
       obligation of the vendor and shall not be chargeable in any manner to the
       City.

XII.   Withdrawal of Proposals

       Proposals may be withdrawn at any time prior to the submission time
       specified in this RFP, provided notification is received in writing. Proposals
       cannot be changed or withdrawn after the time designated for receipt.

XIII. Rejection of Proposals – Waiver of Informalities or Irregularities

       The City reserves the right to reject any or all proposals, to waive any minor
       informalities or irregularities contained in any proposal, and to accept any
       proposal deemed to be in the best interest of the City.

XIV. Single Response

       A single response to the RFP may be deemed a failure of competition, and in
       the best interest of the City of Cheney, this RFP may be terminated,
       readvertised, or may choose to negotiate with submitting vendor.

XV.    Proposal Validity Period

       Submission of the proposal will signify the vendor’s agreement that its
       proposal and the content thereof are valid for 180 days following the
       submission deadline and will become part of the contract that is negotiated
       between the City and the successful vendor.




                                         11
XVI. City Taxation

      The contractor awarded contract will be required to obtain a City of Cheney
      Business License.

XVII. Public Records

      Under Washington state law, the documents (including but not limited to
      written, printed, graphic, electronic, photographic or voice mail materials
      and/or transcriptions, recordings or reproductions thereof) submitted in
      response to this request for proposals (the “documents”) become a public
      record upon submission to the City, subject to mandatory disclosure upon
      request by any person, unless the documents are exempted from public
      disclosure by a specific provision of law. If the City receives a request for
      inspection or copying of any such documents provided by a vendor in
      response to this RFP, it will promptly notify the vendor at the address given
      in response to this RFP that it has received such a request. Such notice will
      inform the vendor of the date the City intends to disclose the documents
      requested and affording the vendor a reasonable opportunity to obtain a
      court order prohibiting or conditioning the release of the documents. The
      City assumes no contractual obligation to enforce any exemption.

XVIII. Acquisition Authority

      This RFP and acquisition are authorized pursuant to RCW 39.04.270.

XIX. Contract Award and Execution

      The City reserves the right to make an award without further discussion of
      the proposal submitted. Therefore, the proposal should be initially
      submitted on the most favorable terms the vendors can offer. It is
      understood that the proposal will become a part of the official file on this
      matter without obligation to the City.

      The City reserves the right to request clarification of information submitted
      and to request additional information from any proposer.

      Any proposal may be withdrawn up until the date and time set above for
      opening of the proposals. Any proposal not so timely withdrawn shall
      constitute an irrevocable offer, for a period of ninety (90) days to sell the City
                                          12
      the services described in the attached specifications, or until one or more of
      the proposals have been approved by the City administration, whichever
      occurs first.

      The general conditions and specifications of the RFP and as proposed by the
      City and the successful vendor’s response, as amended by agreements
      between the City and the vendor, will become part of the contract
      documents. Additionally, the City will verify vendor representations that
      appear in the proposal. Failure of the vendor’s products to meet the
      mandatory specifications may result in elimination of the vendor from
      competition or in contract cancellation or termination.

      The vendor selected as the apparently successful vendor will be expected to
      enter into a contract with the City. The City reserves the right to reject any
      proposed agreement or contract that does not conform to the specifications
      contained in this RFP, and which is not approved by the City Attorney.

      If the selected vendor fails to sign the contract within five (5) business days
      of delivery of the final contract, the City may elect to cancel the award and
      award the contract to the next highest‐ranked vendor.

XX.   Defense, Indemnification, Hold Harmless and Insurance Requirements

      In addition to other standard contractual terms the City will need, the City
      will require the selected vendor to comply with the defense, indemnification,
      hold harmless and insurance requirements as outlined below.

      Proposer shall defend, indemnify and hold the City, its officers, officials,
      employees and volunteers harmless from any and all claims, injuries,
      damages, losses or suits including attorney fees, arising out of or resulting
      from the acts, errors or omissions of the Consultant in performance of this
      Agreement, except for injuries and damages caused by the sole negligence
      of the City.

      The vendor shall procure and maintain, for the duration of this Agreement,
      insurance against claims for injuries to persons or damages to property
      which may arise from or in connection with the performance of the work
      hereunder by the Contractor, his agents, representatives, employees or
      subcontractors. The cost of such insurance shall be paid by the Contractor.


                                         13
XXI. Equal Opportunity Compliance

      The City is an equal opportunity employer and requires all Proposers to
      comply with policies and regulations concerning equal opportunity.

      The Proposer, in the performance of this Agreement, agrees not to
      discriminate in its employment because of the employee’s or applicant’s
      race, religion, national origin, ancestry, sex, sexual preference, age, or
      physical handicap.

XXII. Other Compliance Requirements

      In addition to nondiscrimination and affirmative action compliance
      requirements previously listed, the Proposer awarded a contract shall
      comply with federal, state and local laws, statutes, and ordinances relative
      to the execution of the work. This requirement includes, but is not limited
      to, protection of public and employee safety and health, environmental
      protection, waste reduction and recycling, the protection of natural
      resources, permits, fees, taxes, and similar subjects.

XXIII. Ownership of Documents

      Any reports, studies, conclusions, and summaries prepared by the Proposer
      shall become the property of the City.

XXIV. Confidentiality of Information

      All information and data furnished to the Proposer by the City, and all other
      documents to which the Proposer’s employees have access during the term
      of the contract, shall be treated as confidential to the City. Any oral or
      written disclosure to unauthorized individuals is prohibited.




                                        14
