               TENNESSEE HOUSING DEVELOPMENT AGENCY



              REQUEST FOR PROPOSALS
                       FOR
   SECTION 8 CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION SOFTWARE

                            RFP # 31620-00544


                                 RFP CONTENTS
SECTIONS:
     1.     INTRODUCTION
     2.     RFP SCHEDULE OF EVENTS
     3.     RESPONSE REQUIREMENTS
     4.     GENERAL CONTRACTING INFORMATION & REQUIREMENTS
     5.     EVALUATION & CONTRACT AWARD
ATTACHMENTS:
     6.1.   Response Statement of Certifications & Assurances
     6.2.   Technical Response & Evaluation Guide
     6.3.   Cost Proposal & Scoring Guide
     6.4.   Reference Questionnaire
     6.5.   Score Summary Matrix
     6.6.   Pro Forma Contract
 1.      INTRODUCTION
 Tennessee Housing Development Agency, hereinafter referred to as “THDA,” issues this Request for Proposals
(RFP) to define minimum contract requirements; solicit responses; detail response requirements; and, outline
THDA’s process for evaluating responses and selecting a contractor to provide the needed goods or services.

Through this RFP, THDA seeks to procure necessary goods or services at the most favorable, competitive prices
and to give ALL qualified respondents, including those that are owned by minorities, women, service-disabled
veterans, persons with disabilities and small business enterprises, an opportunity to do business with THDA as
contractors, subcontractors or suppliers.

 1.1.    Statement of Procurement Purpose-

        1.1    Statement of Purpose
         The purpose of this Request for Proposals (RFP) is solicit bids to upgrade/replace the current system.

         The State of Tennessee, Tennessee Housing Development Agency, hereinafter referred to as THDA,
         intends to secure a contract for a Section 8 Contract Administration Tracking, Reporting, and Invoicing
         System. This system will support this agency in the business function of administering a performance
         based Annual Contributions Contract (ACC) between the U. S. Department of Housing and Urban
         Development (HUD) and Tennessee Housing Development Agency (THDA). The ACC includes
         incentive based performance standards (IBPS) and other contract requirements that include various
         forms of processing, monitoring, performing, and/or reporting. The system will provide a means of
         tracking and reporting each of the IBPS standards and other contract requirements as well as a means of
         determining attainment of Acceptable Quality Levels (AQL) for earning administrative fees associated
         with performance under the ACC. Other primary reasons for securing a computer system are to:

                •   Reduce error rates in documenting dates and performance outcomes
                •   Reduce staff time necessary to track progress and generate monthly reports
                •   Reduce staff time necessary to calculate earned administrative fees and generate monthly
                    invoices
                •   Reduce error rates in determining administrative fees
                •   Provide better and more historical information
                •   Provide staff with collective property data associated with any IBPS performed
                •   Provide means for users to generate reports for performance monitoring
                •   Provide means for users to generate ad hoc reports as requested by HUD
                •   Provide other divisions of THDA with statistical data necessary for Civil Rights compliance
                •   Eliminate the use of spreadsheets and a time-consuming manual system of tracking, invoicing,
                    and reporting
                •   Allow time efficient means of meeting monthly, quarterly, and annual performance deadlines
                •   Provide workflow of operations

         THDA is Tennessee’s housing development agency. A major responsibility of THDA is the HUD Section
         8 Contract Administration program. In May 1999, the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
         Development issued a Request for Proposals for Administration of Project-Based Section 8 Housing
         Assistance Payments Contracts. Eligible respondents to the HUD RFP were Public Housing Agencies
         that had a minimum geographic jurisdiction of one entire state area. HUD awarded the Annual
         Contributions Contract (ACC) to THDA in August 2000. The ACC went into effect on December 1, 2000
         with the assignment of over 300 Section 8 Housing Assistance Payments contracts on properties located
         throughout the State of Tennessee. The ACC is currently operating in the Eighth Amendment of the
         term. This program is 100% federally funded.

         The ACC is a performance-based contract and the first of its kind ever issued by HUD. Under the ACC,
         THDA provides contract administration services for dwelling units in the service area receiving project-
         based assistance under Section 8. The primary objectives of THDA’s responsibilities under the ACC are
         to: 1) Calculate and pay Section 8 rental subsidies correctly; 2) Administer project-based Section 8 HAP
         contracts consistently; and, 3) Enforce owner obligations to provide decent housing for eligible families.
         Section 8 Housing Assistance Payments (HAP) contracts are between HUD and property owners and
         contain requirements that owners must meet in order to receive rental subsidy for low-income residents
                                                                                                                      1
       of the properties. To address the three primary objectives and to earn administrative fees that are used
       to support the responsible THDA division, THDA must perform eight (8) core tasks for HUD, which
       include: 1) conduct management and occupancy reviews; 2) process rental adjustments; 3) review,
       verify, and authorize monthly section 8 vouchers; 4.) respond to life-threatening health and safety issues;
       5) respond to respond to non-life threatening health and safety issues; 6) submit audits of the PHA’s
       financial condition; 7) renew expiring HAP contracts; 8) fulfill the general reporting requirements. To
       carry out these eight (8) core tasks HUD established Incentive Based Performance Standards (IBPS)
       that have minimum Acceptable Quality Levels (AQL) that must be met in order to earn the administrative
       fees.

       There are two additional performance requirements that are not associated with earning of administrative
       fees but must be performed, tracked, and reported to HUD. These are processing of special claims and
       addressing general resident issues.

       The ACC may only be amended by HUD and is amended for the purpose of adding or withdrawing
       Section 8 HAP contracts and/or increasing or decreasing the level of federal budget authority for each
       Section 8 HAP contract.

       The successful bidder will work directly with THDA project staff to establish milestones for implementation
       and system roll-out with an initial project schedule due within 1 month of the contract signing; furthermore,
       the new system shall be in production no later than 18 months from the contract signing.


1.2.   Scope of Service, Contract Period, & Required Terms and Conditions

       The RFP Attachment 6.6., Pro Forma Contract details THDA’s requirements:

           Scope of Services and Deliverables (Section A);
           Contract Period (Section B);
           Payment Terms (Section C);
           Standard Terms and Conditions (Section D); and,
           Special Terms and Conditions (Section E).

       The pro forma contract substantially represents the contract document that the successful Respondent
       must sign.

1.3.   Nondiscrimination

       No person shall be excluded from participation in, be denied benefits of, or be otherwise subjected to
       discrimination in the performance of a Contract pursuant to this RFP or in the employment practices of
       the Contractor on the grounds of handicap or disability, age, race, creed, color, religion, sex, national
       origin, or any other classification protected by federal, Tennessee state constitutional, or statutory law.
       The Contractor pursuant to this RFP shall, upon request, show proof of such nondiscrimination and shall
       post in conspicuous places, available to all employees and applicants, notices of nondiscrimination.

1.4.   RFP Communications

       1.4.1.   THDA has assigned the following RFP identification number that must be referenced in all
                communications regarding this RFP:

                RFP # 31620-00544




                                                                                                                       2
1.4.2.   Unauthorized contact about this RFP with employees or officials of THDA except as
         detailed below may result in disqualification from consideration under this procurement
         process.

         1.4.2.1.   Prospective Respondents must direct communications concerning this RFP to the
                    following person designated as the Solicitation Coordinator:

                    Debra Murray
                    Tennessee Housing Development Agency
                    Andrew Jackson Building, 502 Deaderick Street, 2nd Floor
                    Nashville, TN 37243

         1.4.2.2.   Notwithstanding the foregoing, Prospective Respondents may alternatively contact:

                    a. staff of the Governor’s Office of Diversity Business Enterprise for assistance
                       available to minority-owned, woman-owned, service-disabled veteran-owned,
                       businesses owned by persons with disabilities, and small businesses as well as
                       general, public information relating to this RFP (visit
                       https://www.tn.gov/generalservices/procurement/central-procurement-office--cpo-
                       /governor-s-office-of-diversity-business-enterprise--godbe--/godbe-general-
                       contacts.html for contact information); and

                    b. the following individual designated by THDA to coordinate compliance with the
                       nondiscrimination requirements of the State of Tennessee, Title VI of the Civil
                       Rights Act of 1964, the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, and associated
                       federal regulations:

                         Laura Swanson
                        Tennessee Housing Development Agency
                        Andrew Jackson Building
                        502 Deaderick Street, Third Floor
                        615-815-2127
                        lswanson@thda.org

1.4.3.   Only THDA’s official, written responses and communications with Respondents are binding
         with regard to this RFP. Oral communications between a State official and one or more
         Respondents are unofficial and non-binding.

1.4.4.   Potential Respondents must ensure that THDA receives all written questions and comments,
         including questions and requests for clarification, no later than the Written Questions &
         Comments Deadline detailed in the RFP Section 2, Schedule of Events.

1.4.5.   Respondents must assume the risk of the method of dispatching any communication or response
         to THDA. THDA assumes no responsibility for delays or delivery failures resulting from the
         Respondent’s method of dispatch. Actual or digital “postmarking” of a communication or
         response to THDA by a specified deadline is not a substitute for THDA’s actual receipt of a
         communication or response.

1.4.6.   THDA will convey all official responses and communications related to this RFP to the
         prospective Respondents from whom THDA has received a Notice of Intent to Respond (refer to
         RFP Section 2).

1.4.7.   THDA reserves the right to determine, at its sole discretion, the method of conveying official,
         written responses and communications related to this RFP. Such written communications may
         be transmitted by mail, hand-delivery, facsimile, electronic mail, Internet posting, or any other




                                                                                                             3
                means deemed reasonable by THDA. For internet posting, please refer to the following
                website: https://www.tn.gov/generalservices/procurement/central-procurement-office--cpo-
                /supplier-information-/request-for-proposals--rfp--opportunities.html.

       1.4.8.   THDA reserves the right to determine, at its sole discretion, the appropriateness and adequacy
                of responses to written comments, questions, and requests related to this RFP. THDA’s
                official, written responses will constitute an amendment of this RFP.

       1.4.9.   Any data or factual information provided by THDA (in this RFP, an RFP amendment or any other
                communication relating to this RFP) is for informational purposes only. THDA will make
                reasonable efforts to ensure the accuracy of such data or information, however it is the
                Respondent’s obligation to independently verify any data or information provided by THDA.
                THDA expressly disclaims the accuracy or adequacy of any information or data that it provides to
                prospective Respondents.

1.5.   Respondent Required Review & Waiver of Objections

       1.5.1    Each prospective Respondent must carefully review this RFP, including but not limited to,
                attachments, the RFP Attachment 6.6., Pro Forma Contract, and any amendments, for questions,
                comments, defects, objections, or any other matter requiring clarification or correction (collectively
                called “questions and comments”).

       1.5.2    Any prospective Respondent having questions and comments concerning this RFP must provide
                them in writing to THDA no later than the Written Questions & Comments Deadline detailed in the
                RFP Section 2, Schedule of Events.

       1.5.3    Protests based on any objection to the RFP shall be considered waived and invalid if the objection
                has not been brought to the attention of THDA, in writing, by the Written Questions & Comments
                Deadline.

1.6.   Notice of Intent to Respond

       Before the Notice of Intent to Respond Deadline detailed in the RFP Section 2, Schedule of Events,
       prospective Respondents should submit to the Solicitation Coordinator a Notice of Intent to Respond (in
       the form of a simple e-mail or other written communication). Such notice should include the following
       information:

          the business or individual’s name (as appropriate);
          a contact person’s name and title; and
          the contact person’s mailing address, telephone number, facsimile number, and e-mail address.

       A Notice of Intent to Respond creates no obligation and is not a prerequisite for submitting a
       response, however, it is necessary to ensure receipt of any RFP amendments or other notices and
       communications relating to this RFP.

1.7.   Response Deadline

       A Respondent must ensure that THDA receives a response no later than the Response Deadline time
       and date detailed in the RFP Section 2, Schedule of Events. THDA will not accept late responses, and a
       Respondent’s failure to submit a response before the deadline will result in disqualification of the
       response. It is the responsibility of the Respondent to ascertain any additional security requirements with
       respect to packaging and delivery to THDA. Respondents should be mindful of any potential delays due
       to security screening procedures, weather, or other filing delays whether foreseeable or unforeseeable.




                                                                                                                         4
2.        RFP SCHEDULE OF EVENTS

2.1.      The following RFP Schedule of Events represents THDA’s best estimate for this RFP.

                          EVENT                                  TIME                           DATE
                                                           (central time zone)

 1. RFP Issued                                                                   Jan 14, 2020

 2. Notice of Intent to Respond Deadline                            2:00 p.m.    Jan 17, 2020

 3. Written “Questions & Comments” Deadline                         2:00 p.m.    Jan 21, 2020

 4. State Response to Written “Questions &
                                                                                 Jan 28, 2020
     Comments”

 5. Response Deadline                                               2:00 p.m.    Feb 14, 2020

 6. Completion of Technical Response Evaluations
                                                                                 Feb 20, 2020
       (Final Score Dependent on Demonstration)


 7. Schedule and Complete Demonstrations
                                                                                 March 5, 2020

 8. State Opening & Scoring of Cost Proposals                       2:00 p.m.    March 6, 2020

 9. State Notice of Intent to Award Released and RFP
                                                                    2:00 p.m.    March 9, 2020
     Files Opened for Public Inspection

 10. State sends contract to Contractor for signature                            March 11, 2020

 11. Contractor Signature Deadline                                  2:00 p.m.    March 16, 2020

2.2.      THDA reserves the right, at its sole discretion, to adjust the RFP Schedule of Events as it deems
          necessary. Any adjustment of the Schedule of Events shall constitute an RFP amendment, and THDA
          will communicate such to prospective Respondents from whom THDA has received a Notice of Intent to
          Respond (refer to section 2).




                                                                                                               5
3.     RESPONSE REQUIREMENTS

3.1.   Response Form

       A response to this RFP must consist of two parts, a Technical Response and a Cost Proposal.

       3.1.1.   Technical Response. RFP Attachment 6.2., Technical Response & Evaluation Guide provides
                the specific requirements for submitting a response. This guide includes mandatory requirement
                items, general qualifications and experience items, and technical qualifications, experience, and
                approach items all of which must be addressed with a written response and, in some instances,
                additional documentation.


                NOTICE: A technical response must not include any pricing or cost information.
                If any pricing or cost information amounts of any type (even pricing relating to
                other projects) is included in any part of the technical response, the state may
                deem the response to be non-responsive and reject it.

                3.1.1.1.   A Respondent must use the RFP Attachment 6.2., Technical Response & Evaluation
                           Guide to organize, reference, and draft the Technical Response by duplicating the
                           attachment, adding appropriate page numbers as required, and using the guide as a
                           table of contents covering the Technical Response.

                3.1.1.2.   A response should be economically prepared, with emphasis on completeness and
                           clarity. A response, as well as any reference material presented, must be written in
                           English and must be written on standard 8 ½” x 11” pages (although oversize exhibits
                           are permissible) and use a 12 point font for text. All response pages must be
                           numbered.

                3.1.1.3.   All information and documentation included in a Technical Response should
                           correspond to or address a specific requirement detailed in the RFP Attachment 6.2.,
                           Technical Response & Evaluation Guide. All information must be incorporate into a
                           response to a specific requirement and clearly referenced. Any information not
                           meeting these criteria will be deemed extraneous and will not contribute to evaluations.

                3.1.1.4.   THDA may determine a response to be non-responsive and reject it if:

                           a. the Respondent fails to organize and properly reference the Technical Response
                              as required by this RFP and the RFP Attachment 6.2., Technical Response &
                              Evaluation Guide; or

                           b. the Technical Response document does not appropriately respond to, address, or
                              meet all of the requirements and response items detailed in the RFP Attachment
                              6.2., Technical Response & Evaluation Guide.

       3.1.2.   Cost Proposal. A Cost Proposal must be recorded on an exact duplicate of the RFP Attachment
                6.3., Cost Proposal & Scoring Guide.


                NOTICE: If a Respondent fails to submit a cost proposal exactly as required,
                THDA may deem the response to be non-responsive and reject it.

                3.1.2.1.   A Respondent must only record the proposed cost exactly as required by the RFP
                           Attachment 6.3., Cost Proposal & Scoring Guide and must NOT record any other rates,
                           amounts, or information.



                                                                                                                      6
                3.1.2.2.   The proposed cost shall incorporate ALL costs for services under the contract for the
                           total contract period, including any renewals or extensions.

                3.1.2.3.   A Respondent must sign and date the Cost Proposal.

                3.1.2.4.   A Respondent must submit the Cost Proposal to THDA in a sealed package
                           separate from the Technical Response (as detailed in RFP Sections 3.2.3., et seq.).

3.2.   Response Delivery

       3.2.1.   A Respondent must ensure that both the original Technical Response and Cost Proposal
                documents meet all form and content requirements, including all required signatures, as detailed
                within this RFP, as may be amended.

       3.2.2.   A Respondent must submit original Technical Response and Cost Proposal documents and
                copies as specified below.

                3.2.2.1.   One (1) original Technical Response paper document labeled:

                           “RFP # 31620-00544 TECHNICAL RESPONSE ORIGINAL”

                           And Three (3) digital copies of the Technical Response each in the form of one (1)
                           digital document in “PDF” format properly recorded on its own otherwise blank,
                           standard CD-R recordable disc or USB flash drive labeled:

                           “RFP # 31620-00544 TECHNICAL RESPONSE COPY”

                           The digital copies should not include copies of sealed customer references, however
                           any other discrepancy between the paper Technical Response document and any
                           digital copies may result in THDA rejecting the proposal as non-responsive.

                3.2.2.2.   One (1) original Cost Proposal paper document labeled:

                           “RFP # 31620-00544 COST PROPOSAL ORIGINAL”

                           and one (1) copy in the form of a digital document in “PDF/XLS” format properly
                           recorded on separate, blank, standard CD-R recordable disc or USB flash drive
                           labeled:

                           “RFP # 31620-00544 COST PROPOSAL COPY”

                           In the event of a discrepancy between the original Cost Proposal document and the
                           digital copy, the original, signed document will take precedence.

       3.2.3.   A Respondent must separate, seal, package, and label the documents and copies for delivery as
                follows:

                3.2.3.1.   The Technical Response original document and digital copies must be placed in a
                           sealed package that is clearly labeled:

                           “DO NOT OPEN… RFP # 31620-00544 TECHNICAL RESPONSE
                           FROM [RESPONDENT LEGAL ENTITY NAME]”

                3.2.3.2.   The Cost Proposal original document and digital copy must be placed in a separate,
                           sealed package that is clearly labeled:




                                                                                                                   7
                           “DO NOT OPEN… RFP # 31620-00544 COST PROPOSAL FROM
                           [RESPONDENT LEGAL ENTITY NAME]”

                3.2.3.3.   The separately, sealed Technical Response and Cost Proposal components may be
                           enclosed in a larger package for mailing or delivery, provided that the outermost
                           package is clearly labeled:

                           “RFP # 31620-00544 SEALED TECHNICAL RESPONSE & SEALED COST
                           PROPOSAL FROM [RESPONDENT LEGAL ENTITY NAME]”

       3.2.4.   A Respondent must ensure that THDA receives a response no later than the Response
                Deadline time and date detailed in the RFP Section 2, Schedule of Events at the following
                address:

                Debra Murray
                Tennessee Housing Development Agency
                Andrew Jackson Building, 502 Deaderick Street, 2nd
                Nashville, TN 37243

3.3.   Response & Respondent Prohibitions

       3.3.1.   A response must not include alternate contract terms and conditions. If a response contains such
                terms and conditions, THDA, at its sole discretion, may determine the response to be a non-
                responsive counteroffer and reject it.

       3.3.2.   A response must not restrict the rights of THDA or otherwise qualify either the offer to deliver
                goods or provide services as required by this RFP or the Cost Proposal. If a response restricts
                the rights of THDA or otherwise qualifies either the offer to deliver goods or provide services as
                required by this RFP or the Cost Proposal, THDA, at its sole discretion, may determine the
                response to be a non-responsive counteroffer and reject it.

       3.3.3.   A response must not propose alternative goods or services (i.e., offer services different from
                those requested and required by this RFP) unless expressly requested in this RFP. THDA
                may consider a response of alternative goods or services to be non-responsive and reject it.

       3.3.4.   A Cost Proposal must be prepared and arrived at independently and must not involve any
                collusion between Respondents. THDA will reject any Cost Proposal that involves collusion,
                consultation, communication, or agreement between Respondents. Regardless of the time of
                detection, THDA will consider any such actions to be grounds for response rejection or contract
                termination.

       3.3.5.   A Respondent must not provide, for consideration in this RFP process or subsequent contract
                negotiations, any information that the Respondent knew or should have known was materially
                incorrect. If THDA determines that a Respondent has provided such incorrect information, THDA
                will deem the Response non-responsive and reject it.

       3.3.6.   A Respondent must not submit more than one Technical Response and one Cost Proposal in
                response to this RFP, except as expressly requested by THDA in this RFP. If a Respondent
                submits more than one Technical Response or more than one Cost Proposal, THDA will deem all
                of the responses non-responsive and reject them.

       3.3.7.   A Respondent must not submit a response as a prime contractor while also permitting one or
                more other Respondents to offer the Respondent as a subcontractor in their own responses.
                Such may result in the disqualification of all Respondents knowingly involved. This restriction
                does not, however, prohibit different Respondents from offering the same subcontractor as a part
                of their responses (provided that the subcontractor does not also submit a response as a prime
                contractor).


                                                                                                                     8
       3.3.8.   THDA shall not consider a response from an individual who is, or within the past six (6)
                months has been, a State employee. For purposes of this RFP:

                3.3.8.1. An individual shall be deemed a State employee until such time as all compensation for
                         salary, termination pay, and annual leave has been paid;
                3.3.8.2. A contract with or a response from a company, corporation, or any other contracting
                         entity in which a controlling interest is held by any State employee shall be considered to
                         be a contract with or proposal from the employee; and
                3.3.8.3. A contract with or a response from a company, corporation, or any other contracting
                         entity that employs an individual who is, or within the past six (6) months has been, a
                         State employee shall not be considered a contract with or a proposal from the employee
                         and shall not constitute a prohibited conflict of interest.

3.4.   Response Errors & Revisions

       A Respondent is responsible for any and all response errors or omissions. A Respondent will not be
       allowed to alter or revise response documents after the Response Deadline time and date detailed in the
       RFP Section 2, Schedule of Events unless such is formally requested, in writing, by THDA.

3.5.   Response Withdrawal

       A Respondent may withdraw a submitted response at any time before the Response Deadline time and
       date detailed in the RFP Section 2, Schedule of Events by submitting a written request signed by an
       authorized Respondent representative. After withdrawing a response, a Respondent may submit another
       response at any time before the Response Deadline. After the Response Deadline, a Respondent may
       only withdraw all or a portion of a response where the enforcement of the response would impose an
       unconscionable hardship on the Respondent.

3.6.   Additional Services

       If a response offers goods or services in addition to those required by and described in this RFP,
       THDA, at its sole discretion, may add such services to the contract awarded as a result of this RFP.
       Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Respondent must not propose any additional cost amounts or rates for
       additional goods or services. Regardless of any additional services offered in a response, the
       Respondent’s Cost Proposal must only record the proposed cost as required in this RFP and must not
       record any other rates, amounts, or information.

       NOTICE: If a Respondent fails to submit a Cost Proposal exactly as required, THDA may deem the
       response non-responsive and reject it.

3.7.   Response Preparation Costs

       THDA will not pay any costs associated with the preparation, submittal, or presentation of any
       response.




                                                                                                                       9
4.     GENERAL CONTRACTING INFORMATION & REQUIREMENTS

4.1.   RFP Amendment

       THDA at its sole discretion may amend this RFP, in writing, at any time prior to contract award.
       However, prior to any such amendment, THDA will consider whether it would negatively impact the
       ability of potential Respondents to meet the response deadline and revise the RFP Schedule of Events if
       deemed appropriate. If an RFP amendment is issued, THDA will convey it to potential Respondents who
       submitted a Notice of Intent to Respond (refer to RFP Section 2). A response must address the final
       RFP (including its attachments) as amended.

4.2.   RFP Cancellation

       THDA reserves the right, at its sole discretion, to cancel the RFP or to cancel and reissue this RFP in
       accordance with applicable laws and regulations.

4.3.   State Right of Rejection

       4.3.1.   Subject to applicable laws and regulations, THDA reserves the right to reject, at its sole
                discretion, any and all responses.

       4.3.2.   THDA may deem as non-responsive and reject any response that does not comply with all terms,
                conditions, and performance requirements of this RFP. Notwithstanding the foregoing, THDA
                reserves the right to waive, at its sole discretion, minor variances from full compliance with this
                RFP. If THDA waives variances in a response, such waiver shall not modify the RFP
                requirements or excuse the Respondent from full compliance, and THDA may hold any resulting
                Contractor to strict compliance with this RFP.

4.4.   Assignment & Subcontracting

       4.4.1.   The Contractor may not subcontract, transfer, or assign any portion of the Contract awarded as a
                result of this RFP without prior approval of THDA. THDA reserves the right to refuse approval, at
                its sole discretion, of any subcontract, transfer, or assignment.

       4.4.2.   If a Respondent intends to use subcontractors, the response to this RFP must specifically identify
                the scope and portions of the work each subcontractor will perform (refer to RFP Attachment 6.2.,
                Section C, General Qualifications & Experience Item C.14.).

       4.4.3.   Subcontractors identified within a response to this RFP will be deemed as approved by THDA
                unless THDA expressly disapproves one or more of the proposed subcontractors prior to signing
                the Contract.

       4.4.4.   After contract award, a Contractor may only substitute an approved subcontractor at the
                discretion of THDA and with THDA’s prior, written approval.

       4.4.5.   Notwithstanding any State approval relating to subcontracts, the Respondent who is awarded a
                contract pursuant to this RFP will be the prime contractor and will be responsible for all work
                under the Contract.

4.5.   Right to Refuse Personnel or Subcontractors

       THDA reserves the right to refuse, at its sole discretion and notwithstanding any prior approval, any
       personnel of the prime contractor or a subcontractor providing goods or services in the performance of a
       contract resulting from this RFP. THDA will document in writing the reason(s) for any rejection of
       personnel.




                                                                                                                      10
4.6.   Insurance

        THDA will require the awarded Contractor to provide a Certificate of Insurance issued by an insurance
       company licensed or authorized to provide insurance in the State of Tennessee. Each Certificate of
       Insurance shall indicate current insurance coverages meeting minimum requirements as may be
       specified by this RFP. A failure to provide a current, Certificate of Insurance will be considered a material
       breach and grounds for contract termination.

4.7.   Professional Licensure and Department of Revenue Registration

       4.7.1.   All persons, agencies, firms, or other entities that provide legal or financial opinions, which a
                Respondent provides for consideration and evaluation as a part of a response to this RFP, shall
                be properly licensed to render such opinions.

       4.7.2.   Before the Contract resulting from this RFP is signed, the apparent successful Respondent (and
                Respondent employees and subcontractors, as applicable) must hold all necessary or
                appropriate business or professional licenses to provide the goods or services as required by the
                contract. THDA may require any Respondent to submit evidence of proper licensure.

       4.7.3.   Before the Contract resulting from this RFP is signed, the apparent successful Respondent must
                be registered with the Tennessee Department of Revenue for the collection of Tennessee sales
                and use tax. THDA shall not award a contract unless the Respondent provides proof of such
                registration or provides documentation from the Department of Revenue that the Contractor is
                exempt from this registration requirement. The foregoing is a mandatory requirement of an award
                of a contract pursuant to this solicitation. For purposes of this registration requirement, the
                Department of Revenue may be contacted at: TN.Revenue@tn.gov.

4.8.   Disclosure of Response Contents

       4.8.1.   All materials submitted to THDA in response to this RFP shall become the property of THDA of
                Tennessee. Selection or rejection of a response does not affect this right. By submitting a
                response, a Respondent acknowledges and accepts that the full response contents and
                associated documents will become open to public inspection in accordance with the laws of the
                State of Tennessee.

       4.8.2.   THDA will hold all response information, including both technical and cost information, in
                confidence during the evaluation process.
       4.8.3.   Upon completion of response evaluations, indicated by public release of a Notice of Intent to
                Award, the responses and associated materials will be open for review by the public in
                accordance with Tenn. Code Ann. § 10-7-504(a)(7).

4.9.   Contract Approval and Contract Payments

       4.9.1.   After contract award, the Contractor who is awarded the contract must submit appropriate
                documentation with the Department of Finance and Administration, Division of Accounts.

       4.9.2.   This RFP and its contractor selection processes do not obligate THDA and do not create
                rights, interests, or claims of entitlement in either the Respondent with the apparent best-
                evaluated response or any other Respondent. State obligations pursuant to a contract award
                shall commence only after the Contract is signed by THDA’s agency head and the Contractor
                and after the Contract is approved by all other state officials as required by applicable laws and
                regulations.

       4.9.3.   No payment will be obligated or made until the relevant Contract is approved as required by
                applicable statutes and rules of the State of Tennessee.




                                                                                                                       11
                4.9.3.1.   THDA shall not be liable for payment of any type associated with the Contract
                           resulting from this RFP (or any amendment thereof) or responsible for any goods
                           delivered or services rendered by the Contractor, even goods delivered or services
                           rendered in good faith and even if the Contractor is orally directed to proceed with the
                           delivery of goods or the rendering of services, if it occurs before the Contract Effective
                           Date or after the Contract Term.

                4.9.3.2.   All payments relating to this procurement will be made in accordance with the Payment
                           Terms and Conditions of the Contract resulting from this RFP (refer to RFP Attachment
                           6.6., Pro Forma Contract, Section C).

                4.9.3.3.   If any provision of the Contract provides direct funding or reimbursement for the
                           competitive purchase of goods or services as a component of contract performance or
                           otherwise provides for the reimbursement of specified, actual costs, THDA will employ
                           all reasonable means and will require all such documentation that it deems necessary
                           to ensure that such purchases were competitive and costs were reasonable,
                           necessary, and actual. The Contractor shall provide reasonable assistance and access
                           related to such review. Further, THDA shall not remit, as funding or reimbursement
                           pursuant to such provisions, any amounts that it determines do not represent
                           reasonable, necessary, and actual costs.

4.10.   Contractor Performance

        The Contractor who is awarded a contract will be responsible for the delivery of all acceptable goods or
        the satisfactory completion of all services set out in this RFP (including attachments) as may be
        amended. All goods or services are subject to inspection and evaluation by THDA. THDA will employ all
        reasonable means to ensure that goods delivered or services rendered are in compliance with the
        Contract, and the Contractor must cooperate with such efforts.

4.11.   Contract Amendment

        After Contract award, THDA may request the Contractor to deliver additional goods or perform additional
        services within the general scope of the Contract and this RFP, but beyond the specified Scope, and for
        which the Contractor may be compensated. In such instances, THDA will provide the Contractor a written
        description of the additional goods or services. The Contractor must respond to THDA with a time
        schedule for delivering the additional goods or accomplishing the additional services based on the
        compensable units included in the Contractor’s response to this RFP. If THDA and the Contractor reach
        an agreement regarding the goods or services and associated compensation, such agreement must be
        effected by means of a contract amendment. Further, any such amendment requiring additional goods or
        services must be signed by both THDA agency head and the Contractor and must be approved by other
        state officials as required by applicable statutes, rules, policies and procedures of THDA. The Contractor
        must not provide additional goods or render additional services until THDA has issued a written contract
        amendment with all required approvals.

4.12.   Severability

        If any provision of this RFP is declared by a court to be illegal or in conflict with any law, said decision will
        not affect the validity of the remaining RFP terms and provisions, and the rights and obligations of THDA
        and Respondents will be construed and enforced as if the RFP did not contain the particular provision
        held to be invalid.

4.13.   Next Ranked Respondent
        THDA reserves the right to initiate negotiations with the next ranked Respondent should THDA cease
        doing business with any Respondent selected via this RFP process.




                                                                                                                            12
5.     EVALUATION & CONTRACT AWARD

5.1.   Evaluation Categories & Maximum Points

       THDA will consider qualifications, experience, technical approach, and cost in the evaluation of
       responses and award points in each of the categories detailed below (up to the maximum evaluation
       points indicated) to each response deemed by THDA to be responsive.

                   EVALUATION CATEGORY                                   MAXIMUM POINTS POSSIBLE
                   Mandatory Requirements                                         Pass/Fail only
           (refer to RFP Attachment 6.2., Section A)                          (points not applicable)
                                                                        NUMBER (55% of Total Score) =
                                                            Priority Potential Points: Critical = 10pts – High = 6pts
             System Functionality Requirements                                  – Medium = 4pts
           (refer to RFP Attachment 6.2., Section B)         Requirement Met: Complete = 100% - Partial = 50% -
                                                                         Not Met / Future Release – 0%
                                                                       NUMBER (15% of Total Score)
              General Qualifications & Experience                    Some answers may be disqualifying
            (refer to RFP Attachment 6.2., Section C)                      Each Question: 5 pts
                                                             (Requirement Met: 100% - Requirement Not Met: 0%)
                                                                       NUMBER (15% of Total Score)
           Technical Qualifications, Experience &
                                                                           Each Question: 5 pts
                          Approach
           (refer to RFP Attachment 6.2., Section D)         (Requirement Met: 100% - Requirement Not Met: 0%)
                          Cost Proposal
                                                                         NUMBER (15% of Total Score)
                  (refer to RFP Attachment 6.3)

5.2.   Evaluation Process

       The evaluation process is designed to award the contract resulting from this RFP not necessarily to the
       Respondent offering the lowest cost, but rather to the Respondent deemed by THDA to be responsive
       and responsible who offers the best combination of attributes based upon the evaluation criteria.
       (“Responsive Respondent” is defined as a Respondent that has submitted a response that conforms in all
       material respects to the RFP. “Responsible Respondent” is defined as a Respondent that has the
       capacity in all respects to perform fully the contract requirements, and the integrity and reliability which
       will assure good faith performance.)

       5.2.1.   Technical Response Evaluation. The Solicitation Coordinator and the Proposal Evaluation
                Team (consisting of three (3) or more THDA employees) will use the RFP Attachment 6.2.,
                Technical Response & Evaluation Guide to manage the Technical Response Evaluation and
                maintain evaluation records.

                5.2.1.1.   THDA reserves the right, at its sole discretion, to request Respondent clarification of a
                           Technical Response or to conduct clarification discussions with any or all
                           Respondents. Any such clarification or discussion will be limited to specific sections of
                           the response identified by THDA. The subject Respondent must put any resulting
                           clarification in writing as may be required and in accordance with any deadline imposed
                           by THDA.

                5.2.1.2.   The Solicitation Coordinator will review each Technical Response to determine
                           compliance with RFP Attachment 6.2., Technical Response & Evaluation Guide,
                           Section A- Mandatory Requirement Items. If the Solicitation Coordinator determines
                           that a response failed to meet one or more of the mandatory requirements, the
                           Proposal Evaluation Team will review the response and document the team’s
                           determination of whether:
                                                                                                                        13
                           a. the response adequately meets RFP requirements for further evaluation;

                           b. THDA will request clarifications or corrections for consideration prior to further
                              evaluation; or,

                           c.   THDA will determine the response to be non-responsive to the RFP and reject it.

                5.2.1.3.   Proposal Evaluation Team members will independently evaluate each Technical
                           Response (that is responsive to the RFP) against the evaluation criteria in this RFP,
                           and will score each in accordance with the RFP Attachment 6.2., Technical Response
                           & Evaluation Guide.

                5.2.1.4.   For each response evaluated, the Solicitation Coordinator will calculate the average of
                           the Proposal Evaluation Team member scores for RFP Attachment 6.2., Technical
                           Response & Evaluation Guide, and record each average as the response score for the
                           respective Technical Response section.

                5.2.1.5.   Before Cost Proposals are opened, the Proposal Evaluation Team will review the
                           Technical Response Evaluation record and any other available information pertinent to
                           whether or not each Respondent is responsive and responsible. If the Proposal
                           Evaluation Team identifies any Respondent that does not meet the responsive and
                           responsible thresholds such that the team would not recommend the Respondent for
                           Cost Proposal Evaluation and potential contract award, the team members will fully
                           document the determination.

       5.2.2.   Cost Proposal Evaluation. The Solicitation Coordinator will open for evaluation the Cost
                Proposal of each Respondent deemed by THDA to be responsive and responsible and calculate
                and record each Cost Proposal score in accordance with the RFP Attachment 6.3., Cost Proposal
                & Scoring Guide.

       5.2.3.   Total Response Score. The Solicitation Coordinator will calculate the sum of the Technical
                Response section scores and the Cost Proposal score and record the resulting number as the
                total score for the subject Response (refer to RFP Attachment 6.5., Score Summary Matrix).

5.3.   Contract Award Process

       5.3.1    The Solicitation Coordinator will submit the Proposal Evaluation Team determinations and scores
                to the head of the procuring agency for consideration along with any other relevant information
                that might be available and pertinent to contract award.

       5.3.2.   The procuring agency head will determine the apparent best-evaluated Response. To effect a
                contract award to a Respondent other than the one receiving the highest evaluation process
                score, the head of the procuring agency must provide written justification and obtain the written
                approval of the Chief Procurement Officer and the Comptroller of the Treasury.

       5.3.3.   THDA will issue a Notice of Intent to Award identifying the apparent best-evaluated response
                and make the RFP files available for public inspection at the time and date specified in the RFP
                Section 2, Schedule of Events.

                NOTICE: The Notice of Intent to Award shall not create rights, interests, or claims of
                entitlement in either the apparent best-evaluated Respondent or any other Respondent.

       5.3.4.   The Respondent identified as offering the apparent best-evaluated response must sign a contract
                drawn by THDA pursuant to this RFP. The Contract shall be substantially the same as the RFP
                Attachment 6.6., Pro Forma Contract. The Respondent must sign the contract by the Contractor
                Signature Deadline detailed in the RFP Section 2, Schedule of Events. If the


                                                                                                                     14
         Respondent fails to provide the signed Contract by this deadline, THDA may determine that
         the Respondent is non-responsive to this RFP and reject the response.

5.3.5.   Notwithstanding the foregoing, THDA may, at its sole discretion, entertain limited negotiation
         prior to Contract signing and, as a result, revise the pro forma contract terms and conditions or
         performance requirements in THDA’s best interests, PROVIDED THAT such revision of terms
         and conditions or performance requirements shall NOT materially affect the basis of response
         evaluations or negatively impact the competitive nature of the RFP and contractor selection
         process.

5.3.6.   If THDA determines that a response is non-responsive and rejects it after opening Cost
         Proposals, the Solicitation Coordinator will re-calculate scores for each remaining responsive
         Cost Proposal to determine (or re-determine) the apparent best-evaluated response.




                                                                                                             15
                                                                                                    RFP ATTACHMENT 6.1

                    RFP # 31620-00544 STATEMENT OF CERTIFICATIONS AND ASSURANCES
The Respondent must sign and complete the Statement of Certifications and Assurances below as required, and it must be
included in the Technical Response (as required by RFP Attachment 6.2., Technical Response & Evaluation Guide, Section
A, Item A.1.).


The Respondent does, hereby, expressly affirm, declare, confirm, certify, and assure ALL of the following:
1.     The Respondent will comply with all of the provisions and requirements of the RFP.
2.     The Respondent will provide all services as defined in the Scope of the RFP Attachment 6.6., Pro Forma Contract for
       the total Contract Term.
3.     The Respondent, except as otherwise provided in this RFP, accepts and agrees to all terms and conditions set out in
       the RFP Attachment 6.6., Pro Forma Contract.
4.     The Respondent acknowledges and agrees that a contract resulting from the RFP shall incorporate, by reference, all
       proposal responses as a part of the Contract.
5.     The Respondent will comply with:
       (a) the laws of the State of Tennessee;
       (b) Title VI of the federal Civil Rights Act of 1964;
       (c) Title IX of the federal Education Amendments Act of 1972;
       (d) the Equal Employment Opportunity Act and the regulations issued there under by the federal government; and,
       (e) the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 and the regulations issued there under by the federal government.
6.     To the knowledge of the undersigned, the information detailed within the response submitted to this RFP is accurate.
7.     The response submitted to this RFP was independently prepared, without collusion, under penalty of perjury.
8.     No amount shall be paid directly or indirectly to an employee or official of the State of Tennessee as wages,
       compensation, or gifts in exchange for acting as an officer, agent, employee, subcontractor, or consultant to the
       Respondent in connection with this RFP or any resulting contract.
9.     Both the Technical Response and the Cost Proposal submitted in response to this RFP shall remain valid for at least
       120 days subsequent to the date of the Cost Proposal opening and thereafter in accordance with any contract
       pursuant to the RFP.
10.    The Respondent affirms the following statement, as required by the Iran Divestment Act Tenn. Code Ann. § 12-12-
       111: “By submission of this bid, each bidder and each person signing on behalf of any bidder certifies, and in the case
       of a joint bid each party thereto certifies as to its own organization, under penalty of perjury, that to the best of its
       knowledge and belief that each bidder is not on the list created pursuant to §12-12-106.” For reference purposes, the
       list is currently available online at: https://www.tn.gov/generalservices/procurement/central-procurement-office--cpo-
       /library-/public-information-library.html.
By signing this Statement of Certifications and Assurances, below, the signatory also certifies legal authority to
bind the proposing entity to the provisions of this RFP and any contract awarded pursuant to it. If the signatory is
not the Respondent (if an individual) or the Respondent’s company President or Chief Executive Officer, this
document must attach evidence showing the individual’s authority to bind the Respondent.


       DO NOT SIGN THIS DOCUMENT IF YOU ARE NOT LEGALLY AUTHORIZED TO BIND THE RESPONDENT



                        SIGNATURE:


          PRINTED NAME & TITLE:


                               DATE:


      RESPONDENT LEGAL ENTITY
                        NAME:




                                                                                                                                   16
                                                                                                                                            RFP ATTACHMENT 6.2 Section A

                                                              TECHNICAL RESPONSE & EVALUATION GUIDE
6.2. SECTION A. - MANDATORY REQUIREMENTS

The Respondent must address all items detailed below and provide, in sequence, the information and documentation as required (referenced with the associated item references).
The Respondent must also detail the response page number for each item in the appropriate space below.

The Solicitation Coordinator will review the response to determine if the Mandatory Requirement Items are addressed as required and mark each with pass or fail. For each item
that is not addressed as required, the Proposal Evaluation Team must review the response and attach a written determination. In addition to the Mandatory Requirement Items, the
Solicitation Coordinator will review each response for compliance with all RFP requirements.


  RESPONDENT LEGAL
  ENTITY NAME:
    Response         Item                                                                                                                                           Meets
      Page #         Ref.                                              Section A — Mandatory Requirement Items                                                   Requirement?
   (Respondent                                                                                                                                                     (Yes/No)
    completes)


                      A-1
                              The Response must be delivered to THDA no later than the Response Deadline specified in the RFP Section 2, Schedule of
                              Events.
                      A-2
                              The Technical Response and the Cost Proposal documentation must be packaged separately as required (refer to RFP Section
                              3.2., et. seq.).
                      A-3
                              The Technical Response must NOT contain cost or pricing information of any type.

                      A-4
                              The Technical Response must NOT contain any restrictions of the rights of THDA or other qualification of the response.
                      A-5
                              A Respondent must NOT submit alternate responses (refer to RFP Section 3.3.).

                      A-6
                              A Respondent must NOT submit multiple responses in different forms (as a prime and a subcontractor) (refer to RFP Section 3.3.).

                      A-7
                              Provide the Statement of Certifications and Assurances (RFP Attachment 6.1.) completed and signed by an individual empowered
                              to bind the Respondent to the provisions of this RFP and any resulting contract. The document must be signed without exception
                              or qualification.
                      A-8
                              Any applicant that currently serves as a contract administrator for HUD under the Program shall not be considered an eligible
                              applicant, and will be excluded from consideration
                      A-9     The system shall provide a module to track resident issues that are phoned in to our call center. The module will allow us to
                              document responses and follow-ups necessary for HUD compliance.
                                                                                                                                                                                   17
A-10   The system shall provide a module to track property monthly & intermittent inspections and audit reviews that are required for
       HUD (Management and Occupancy Review) Compliance.
A-11   The system shall provide a module to document the lifecycle of a property voucher from creating, drafting, approval, payment,
       reconciling and closing in a way that is HUD compliant
A-12   The system shall provide a module to process special claims submitted by properties via a voucher for the four allowed types,
       automate the assigning of an identifier, tracked for approval or denial and then treated as a part of the voucher for payment
       according to HUD regulations.
A-13   The system shall provide a module to process monthly payments to properties based on vouchers, then interface with
       TRACS for HUD approval and then interface with THDA payment system that is all complaint with HUD regulations.
A-14
       The system shall provide a module to track the HUD regulated steps in renewing a contract with an Owner for a Section 8
       property
A-15   The system shall provide a module to track the HUD regulated steps in adjusting the rent for a Section 8 property

A-16   The system shall have the ability to perform reportable quality assurance reviews for special claims and IBPS reports via a
       customizable set of questions
A-17
       The system shall have an easy to use robust reporting module that provides HUD required and customizable leadership
       reporting.




                                                                                                                                        18
                                                                                                                                                RFP ATTACHMENT 6.2. Section B

                                                             TECHNICAL RESPONSE & EVALUATION GUIDE
6.2. SECTION B. - SYSTEM FUNCTIONALITY REQUIREMENTS. The Respondent must address all items detailed below and provide, in sequence, the information and
documentation as required (referenced with the associated item references). The Respondent must also detail the response page number for each item in the appropriate space
below.

The respondent will self-rate each requirement with Completely Met, Partially Met or Not Met/Future Release in the appropriate column below. Responses will be taken under
consideration to determine the vendors chosen to provide a demonstration. Prior to the demonstration, vendors will be provided use cases which will be workflows to highlight all
requirements listed in this section. The final score will be determined by THDA, factoring in the results of the demonstrations. The review committee will score with Completely
Met, Partially Met or Not Met/Future Release.

 RESPONDENT LEGAL ENTITY
 NAME:
  Response           Item         Item                          Section B —System Functionality Requirements                                           Priority         Meets
    Page #         Category       Ref.        Please describe how your product meets in separate document and provide Response Page #               Critical = HUD   Requirement?
 (Respondent                                                               and if you Meet the Requirement                                          Requirement      (Respondent
  completes)                                                                                                                                             10pts        completes)
                                            You will be provided use cases based on the below requirements and asked to demonstrate how              High = High      Completely
                                                           your product meets the requirements if you are chosen as a finalist                        Efficiency         Met =
                                                                                                                                                          6pts           100%
                                                                                                                                                    Medium = Med     Partially Met =
                                                                                                                                                       Efficiency         50%
                                                                                                                                                          4pts       Not Met = 0%
                   Resident                The system shall have a search feature to search by date, contract and status for locating a current
                                   B-1                                                                                                                 Critical
                    Issues                 or closed call.

                   Resident                The system shall display a summary screen including call number, property name, contract
                    Issues         B-2                                                                                                                 Critical
                                           number, type and status. When a summary line is selected a user is able to work with one of the
                                           calls.

                   Resident                The system shall allow a user to create, edit, unlock or delete call tracking items. The user can
                    Issues         B-3                                                                                                                 Critical
                                           close a call tracker to finalize it.
                   Resident                The system shall generate a letter once a call is closed to include: Call Resolution, day date,
                    Issues         B-4                                                                                                                  High
                                           tenant's name, address, name of property, description of call with date of call, the user's signature,
                                           users name and contact information.
                   Resident                The system shall send users reminders to complete open calls when due dates approach and
                                   B-5                                                                                                                  High
                    Issues                 identify open calls that have past due dates


                   Resident                The system shall maximize available data on the screen to optimize workflow.
                                   B-6                                                                                                                  High
                    Issues
                   Resident                The system shall allow the user to create a new call by selecting the property and contract
                    Issues         B-7                                                                                                                  High
                                           information from a drop down feature. Selection of the property/contract will default
                                           property/agent/owner demographic information for display

                                                                                                                                                                                       19
Resident          The system shall allow for the entry of call details to include: type, source, date, time, caller name,
 Issues    B-8                                                                                                              Critical
                  phone number, and description of call


Resident   B-9
                  The system shall allow for the selection of the unit and name of the tenant based on the property         Critical
 Issues
                  selected in the tenant details. User should be able to manually enter demographic information
Resident
           B-10
 Issues                                                                                                                     Critical
                  The system shall allow the user to select the call status and enter the date/time for that status.
Resident
           B-11   The system shall have a feature where user can 'Follow Up' entering all follow up actions for the
 Issues                                                                                                                     Critical
                  call
Resident   B-12
 Issues           The system shall allow for the user to create, edit and delete call details identifying the user who
                  performed the actions                                                                                     Critical
Resident   B-13
 Issues           The system shall keep a copy of communications (Emails/Letters) and should reproduce on
                  demand.                                                                                                    High
 MOR       B-14
                  The system shall feature a section for MORs to be completed by a user based on the current HUD
                  form (9834)                                                                                               Critical
 MOR       B-15   The system shall allow the coordinator to complete MOR reviews via a mobile platform preferably
                  using a tablet when visiting properties. The mobile platform should have an additional offline mode
                  to collect data and transmit when reconnected.                                                             High
 MOR       B-16
                  The system shall transmit information from the mobile platform to the central software
                                                                                                                            Critical

 MOR       B-17   The system shall display all listed properties and contract numbers in the MOR module
                                                                                                                            Critical

 MOR       B-18   The system shall allow the user to create, edit, or delete an MOR for each property
                                                                                                                            Critical
 MOR       B-19
                  The system shall allow an administrator to add/remove properties from the user worklist
                                                                                                                             High
 MOR       B-20
                  The system shall allow the manager to assign or un-assign properties and MORs to users
                                                                                                                             High
 MOR       B-21
                  The system shall monitor task dates for the MOR process and highlight any overdue MORs.
                                                                                                                             High
 MOR       B-22
                  The system shall provide an area within the application to track issues discovered from the
                  inspection/review                                                                                          High

 MOR       B-23   The system shall interface with TRACS to automate the completion of sections for the 9834
                  addendum A                                                                                                 High

 MOR       B-24   The system shall generate the following MOR letters: Notification of MOR, Report Cover Letter,
                  Extension Letter, Closure Letter, and Non-Compliance Letter                                               Critical



                                                                                                                                       20
Voucher   B-25   The system shall allow the user to search for a past and current voucher not limited to contract
                 number, property name, Sent to TRACS date, SSN and Status.                                                 Critical
          B-26   The system shall have the ability to display Vouchers assigned to a user's worklist with the ability
Voucher          to limit viewing by user via admin's controls for special assignment/viewing. A user may share
                 items from their worklist with another user.                                                                High
          B-27   After the Voucher search, the system shall include a summary screen of voucher information
Voucher          including dates received and built date, then provide the user an option to navigate to other areas
                 such as Unit detail, Rent Schedule, Voucher Detail, Contacts, and Repayment Agreement.                     Critical
Voucher   B-28
                 The system shall allow the user to enter remarks regarding the voucher. The user should also be
                 able to deny/approve voucher                                                                               Critical
          B-29   The system should allow the user to build, revalidate, and hold certs for the voucher. They should
Voucher          also be able to rebuild the unit if needed. The user will need to be able to revalidate all certs at the
                 same time. If there is an error in the cert, the user should be able to remove it.                         Critical
Voucher   B-30   The system should allow the user to generate a 52670, which is a paper copy of the voucher. The
                 summary should include the voucher information.                                                            Medium
Voucher   B-31
                 The user should be able to manually suspend a voucher and enter comments and write off remarks
                 about that suspension. The system should have an area showing the CA/OA total in this area.                 High
                 The system shall allow for a retroactive adjustment to be managed by the user allowing for details
Voucher   B-32   to be documented not limited to a resident's full name, prior/new, new cert, cert code, effective
                 date, assistance payment, start date, end date, beginning number of days, beginning day rate,
                 number of months, monthly rate, end number of days, end day rate, CA amount and OA amount,
                 variance, balance, Is resolved, on rec report, remarks and write off remarks.                              Critical
                 The system shall allow for a misc adjustment to be managed by the user allowing for details to be
Voucher   B-33   documented. The system should show the CA/OA total in this area and include a drop down with
                 all the codes that TRACS allows for the misc adjustment. The CA amount should be a manual
                 entry and the OA amount should not. The user should be able to add to the remarks if needed from
                 the OA.                                                                                                    Critical
Voucher   B-34   The user should be able to access special claims from the voucher if claims are listed, instead of
                 having to navigate away from the voucher and work on the special claim. Information on the
                 special claim(s) should be listed including day counts since approval.                                      High
                 The system shall have the ability to work with repayments. The creation of a repayment should
Voucher   B-35   change the original agreement amount if the owner is entering a change amount. The area should
                 show the CA/OA total. The user should be able to manually update the resident's name and unit
                 number if modified.                                                                                        Critical
Voucher   B-36   The system shall allow a user to work with Voucher Reconciliations. This area should show the
                 history of any late notices that are sent, the draft, final and no pay. Details should include type,
                 completion date, sent to OA date, method and the ability to resend. There should be an area to
                 show the action that allows the user to select: 'complete draft reconciliation' or 'complete final
                 reconciliation'. If draft is selected the user should be given the action option to 'reopen
                 reconciliation' or send draft reconciliation to OA' and select update/ok/save. If final is selected, the
                 user should be given the action option to 'reopen reconciliation' or 'submit for approval' then select
                 update/ok/save.                                                                                             High
Voucher   B-37
                 For Payment, the system should allow the payment coordinator or administrator to accept/reject
                 TRACS response and approve/deny LOCCS status.                                                              Critical



                                                                                                                                       21
Voucher   B-38   The system should show historic actions of the voucher. Information to include status, completion
                 date, completed by, modified by, notes. The user should be allowed to reset status before it
                 becomes TRACS submitted, after approved, the administrator should be able to reset the status.         Critical


Voucher   B-39   The system should show multiple MAT 30 files received from the owner with the ability to select
                 and view details pertaining to the MAT file for the voucher.                                           Critical
Voucher   B-40
                 The system should capture the certification information from the HUD 50059 data submitted by the
                 owner and be accessible. The user should be able to click a button to export the 50059                 Critical
                 The system should show a Unit Detail chart displaying the unit information in detail allowing the
Voucher   B-41   user to make changes to the status, category, or type as necessary. The user should also be able
                 to navigate to the associated certifications. The user should be able to merge, apply gross rent and
                 save changes if user security allows.                                                                   High
                 The system shall display Rent schedules by date. The user should be able to apply new rents, add
Voucher   B-42   in process, delete in process and save in process from this area. The user should also be able to
                 change the unit information according to the rent schedule changes.                                    Critical
                 The system shall allow the user to view the repayment agreement balance and amount for each
Voucher   B-43   tenant. It should also show the payments that have been applied. The user should be able to
                 modify the tenant's name and unit information if changed. The system administrator shall be able
                 to update agreement amounts as needed.                                                                  High
Voucher   B-44
                 If a voucher has an offset, the amount, start and end date should be shown and the system
                 administrator should have the ability to add or remove offset as needed.                                High
Voucher   B-45
                 The system shall allow a user to view the TRACS response.
                                                                                                                        Critical
Voucher   B-46
                 The system shall allow the user to reimport voucher and tenant data received
                                                                                                                        Critical
Voucher   B-47
                 The system shall allow the user to view appendix C errors and select the error to gain more detail
                 from the MAT file                                                                                      Critical
Voucher   B-48
                 The system shall automate an email to the owner for a TRACS response and allow for the system
                 user to view this email                                                                                 High
Voucher   B-49   The system shall allow a user to view the voucher and tenant data received from the owner (MAT
                 file)                                                                                                  Critical
Voucher   B-50   The system shall allow the user to view the voucher and tenant date sent to TRACS by the system
                                                                                                                        Critical
Voucher   B-51   The system shall allow the user to view the IMAX file
                                                                                                                        Critical
Voucher   B-52   The system shall allow the user to identify and merge residents
                                                                                                                         High
Voucher   B-53
                 The system shall allow the user to void a voucher if security allows
                                                                                                                         High



                                                                                                                                   22
 Voucher     B-54
                    The system shall allow the user to view the county income limits and FMRs
                                                                                                                                 Medium
             B-55
 Special            The system shall have a search feature to search by date, contract and status for an existing
 Claims             claim.                                                                                                        High
             B-56   The system shall provide a module to enter a special claim by unit number and tenant
 Special
 Claims                                                                                                                           High
                    The system shall display a summary screen including claim number, property name, contract
             B-57   number, type and status. When a summary line is selected, the user is able to
 Special            work on the claim
 Claims                                                                                                                           High
             B-58   The system should allow the user to create, modify, unlock or delete special claim.
 Special
 Claims                                                                                                                          Critical
             B-59   The system shall allow for the entry of all details needed for a claim.
 Special
 Claims                                                                                                                          Critical
             B-60   The system shall allow for the easy selection of the unit number and tenant associated with the
 Special
 Claims             special claim including the ability to partially type in a number or name to locate the desired unit or
                    name for selection                                                                                           Medium
             B-61   The system shall allow for multiple maintainable contacts including, voucher, late HAP notice, No-
 Special
 Claims             Pay, Special Claim, managing agent & Owners                                                                   High

 Special     B-62   The system shall provide a way to trigger a customizable letter for communication to different
 Claims             contacts around the special claim that includes system driven data.                                           High
             B-63   The system shall indicate if a property requests payment for a claim greater than 90
 Special            days. A system warning shall display enabling a user to either accept or reject that payment.
 Claims                                                                                                                           High
             B-64
 Special            The system shall provide an inbox/work queue by user which can organize work by age of claim
 Claims                                                                                                                          Medium
             B-65   The system shall remove claims that are 100 days since approval with no payment
 Special
 Claims             requested, out of the user's inbox/work queue.                                                               Medium
Payments/    B-66
Accounting          The system should allow the payment coordinator to utilize the state payment system "Edison" for
                    payments to and from HUD via eLOCCS                                                                          Critical
             B-67   The system shall be able to produce a custom payment file in a format to be specified, for import to
Payments/           the State System "Edison". If there is an error in the initial file, a duplicate file should be able to be
Accounting          produced.                                                                                                    Critical
             B-68
Payments/           The system shall provide a place in the Payments module to display a returned status from the
Accounting          TRACS government application.                                                                                Critical
             B-69
Payments/           The system shall provide a place for a payment coordinator to generate and send no-pay and late-
Accounting          pay emails to properties containing details per circumstance.                                                Critical

Payments/    B-70   The system shall allow the import of voucher submissions by the properties to be reviewed and if
Accounting          appropriate approved.                                                                                        Critical

                                                                                                                                            23
Payments/
             B-71   The system shall allow for the submission of the approved voucher to TRACCS for HUD Approval
Accounting
                                                                                                                                Critical
             B-72
Payments/           The system shall allow for the TRACS response in a HUD format with a status code that will drive
Accounting          payments                                                                                                    Critical
             B-73   The system shall allow for the import of an end of the month eLOCCS file to be displayed in a
                    module and allow for the selection of a date of payment that contains the overall payment
Payments/           summary.                                                                                                    Critical
Accounting
             B-74
Payments/           The system shall allow a user to trigger the EFT payment which will then generate the custom file
Accounting          for import into our state payment system (Edison)                                                           Critical
             B-75   The system shall allow the creation of a contract containing multiple fields required by HUD. There
                    should be a checkbox to not generate an EFT with a warning if a payment is attempted. There
Payments/           should be multiple custom fields available for interface requirements.                                      Critical
Accounting
Payments/    B-76   The system shall be able to receive all TRACS responses regardless if there is a current response
Accounting          for a voucher                                                                                                High

Payments/    B-77   The system shall have a payments remark (comment box) section to be able to make notes within
Accounting          the TRACS response.                                                                                          High
             B-78
Payments/           The system shall allow a user to baseline to a specified TRACM address for a specified date(s) up
Accounting          to five years                                                                                                High
             B-79   The system shall have the ability to display active and ready to be processed Contract Renewals
Contract            assigned to a user's worklist with the ability to limit viewing by user with admin's controls for special
Renewals            assignment/viewing.                                                                                          High
Contract            The users worklist shall generate reminders to an assigned user when a Contract is about to expire
Renewals     B-80   and for other HUD designated steps. Any contracts or steps that are overdue shall stand out from
                    other contracts/steps. The due date of the HUD contract renewal steps shall display along with the
                    work item in the work list.                                                                                  High

Contract     B-81   The system shall generate letters via email to the owners/property management which includes
Renewals            selectable property information. Users shall be able to edit the letter as necessary.                        High

Contract     B-82   The system shall allow for the automated creation of a letter that does not require customization
Renewals            and is automatically emailed to the designee.                                                                High
             B-83
Contract            The system shall allow the user to enter the new Contract Expiration date and Next Funding
Renewals            Expiration date which will also drive future worklist assignment                                            Critical
             B-84
Contract            The system shall allow for comments to be added to an individual step to document any variance
Renewals            on the tracking log for an auditor                                                                          Critical
             B-85
Contract            The system shall allow for the user to add a reportable note for the entire tracking log, to include
Renewals            reasons why the overall timeline was interrupted                                                             High
             B-86
Contract            The system shall allow for viewing the history of a contract, prior year(s) renewals.
Renewals                                                                                                                         High

Contract     B-87   The system shall allow the user to edit dates and comments on current and prior year contract
Renewals            renewals within the core module                                                                              High
                                                                                                                                           24
   Contract               The system shall have a summary of the contracts that are selectable to then provide a list of the
   Renewals       B-88    steps for that contract which will include the necessary HUD fields required to work the step
                          including the comments and the user who worked the step even if that user is not assigned the
                          contract in the worklist.                                                                                    High
   Contract       B-89    The system shall allow a manager or administrator to reassign any contract renewals on a worklist
   Renewals               to another user.                                                                                            Critical

   Contract     B-90      The system shall allow user (if security role permits) to view all contracts that are in process and
   Renewals               also close the needed steps                                                                                 Medium
Rent Adjustment B-91      The system shall have the ability to display active and ready to be processed Rent Adjustments
                          assigned to a user's worklist with the ability to limit viewing by user with admin's controls for special
                          assignment/viewing.                                                                                          High
Rent Adjustment           The users worklist shall generate reminders to an assigned user when a Rent Adjustment is about
                  B-92    to expire and for other HUD designated steps. Any Rent Adjustments or steps that are overdue
                          shall stand out from other Rent Adjustments/steps. The due date of the HUD Rent Adjustment
                          steps shall display along with the work item in the work list.                                               High
                  B-93
Rent Adjustment           The system shall generate letters via email to the owners/property management which includes
                          selectable property information. Users shall be able to edit the letter as necessary.                        High
                  B-94
Rent Adjustment           The system shall allow for the automated creation of a letter that does not require customization
                          and is automatically emailed to the designee.                                                                High
                  B-95
Rent Adjustment           The system shall allow the user to enter the Next Funding Expiration date which will also drive
                          future worklist assignment                                                                                  Critical
                  B-96
Rent Adjustment           The system shall allow for comments to be added to an individual step to document any variance
                          on the tracking log for an auditor                                                                          Critical

Rent Adjustment B-97      The system shall allow for the user to add a reportable note for the entire tracking log, to include
                          reasons why the overall timeline was interrupted                                                             High

Rent Adjustment B-98
                          The system shall allow for viewing the history of a Rent Adjustment, prior year(s) renewals.                 High
                  B-99
Rent Adjustment           The system shall allow the user to edit dates and comments on current and prior year Rent
                          Adjustments within the core module                                                                           High
Rent Adjustment           The system shall have a summary of the Rent Adjustments that are selectable to then provide a list
                  B-100   of the steps for that Rent Adjustment which will include the necessary HUD fields required to work
                          the step including the comments and the user who worked the step even if that user is not
                          assigned the Rent Adjustment in the worklist.                                                                High
                  B-101
Rent Adjustment           The system shall allow user (if security role permits) to view all Rent Adjustments that are in
                          process and also close the needed steps                                                                     Critical
                  B-102
Rent Adjustment
                          The system shall allow an administrator to modify Funding Expiration Dates.                                  High
                  B-103
Rent Adjustment           The system shall allow user (manager) to view all rent adjustments that are in process and also
                          close the needed steps                                                                                      Medium



                                                                                                                                                 25
            B-104   The system shall allow for the QA questions to have an initial note and customizable responses to
 Quality            be completed by the reviewer and a secondary set of responses to be completed by the responder
Assurance           including but not limited to: Yes, No, Observation and N/A.                                            High

 Quality    B-105   The system shall allow an administrator to modify QA questions and answers including the ability
Assurance           to version and disable.                                                                                High
            B-106   The system shall allow a user (reviewer) to complete a review but also let them reopen if the
 Quality            review needs to be modified. When the review has a due date set and is completed, a second
Assurance           user (responder) should be triggered a work task to complete a secondary review.                       High
Reporting   B-107   The system shall have a logical, intuitive database structure that allows custom reporting via
                    Microsoft SQL Server Management Studio / SSRS or Crystal Reports and publish them in the
                    application for use by the business                                                                    High
Reporting   B-108   The vender shall supply THDA with a data dictionary to enable location of data fields within
                    the database                                                                                           High

Reporting   B-109
                    The system shall supply common ready to run (canned) reports that business users can use               High
Reporting   B-110
                    The system shall have a reporting suite for business users to easily create custom reports
                                                                                                                          Medium
Reporting   B-111
                    The system shall create MOR reports IBPS1 & FHEO IBPS2 to include information entered from
                    coordinators that will be needed for a submission to HUD                                              Critical
                    The system shall provide a special claims report that contains the Number of special claims, units
Reporting   B-112   reviewed, # of properties, approved as requested, adjusted, denied, requested amount,
                                                                                                                          Critical
                    approved/actual and sent to HUD
Reporting   B-113   The system shall provide a report for Special claims that pulls all of the claims for a date range
                    containing all data within a special claim
                                                                                                                           High
Reporting   B-114   The system shall provide a report for HAP Payments containing the data required for the HUD
                    reporting including the voucher receive date, the date sent to HUD, the OA requested amount, CA
                                                                                                                          Critical
                    Approved amount and the variance. The report shall be able to be run by contract for a
                    specific month.
                    The system shall provide customizable reports based on all voucher information contained within
Reporting   B-115   the application
                                                                                                                           High
Reporting   B-116
                    The system shall generate a combined IBPS3, IBPS6, IBPS9, IBPS10, IBPS13, IBPS14, IBPS15,
                    a MAX Fee detail and summary reports, plus an overall $$ summary to be sent to HUD                    Critical
Reporting   B-117

                    The user shall be able to run the combined IBPS (Requirement 124) report for multiple months          Medium
Reporting   B-118
                    The system shall provide a call log report for resident issues to include all details, comments and
                    follow up items from the call to be sent to HUD                                                       Critical




                                                                                                                                     26
 Reporting      B-119   The system shall provide a IBPS14 HUD compliant report to include the overall tracking note, the
                        contract number, COS, property name, contract expiration date, funding expiration date, funding
                        type, RCS Required y/n, complete package date, budget based rent increase > 5% y/n, funding
                        request sent to HUD date, processing time indicator, ACC Received from HUD date, contract send
                        to owner for signature date, signed contract received from owner date, a day count for how long it
                        took to get the contract signed, complete notification sent to HUD and Owner Date, total
                        processing time for ACC & Complete Notification day count, rent adjustment processed on time <=
                        30 days Y/N and any other HUD required fields.                                                       Critical
                        The system shall provide a HUD compliant IBPS3 report that includes all HUD required fields
 Reporting      B-120   including, Contract#, Property Name, COS, Contract Expiry Date, Funding Expiry Date, Funding
                        Type, Budget Increase > 5% Y/N, Funding Request sent to HUD date &rent adjustment processed
                        on time <= 30 days Y/N                                                                               Critical
 Reporting      B-121   Please provide a list of all standard reports provided by your company
                                                                                                                             Critical
 Reporting      B-122
                        The system shall provide a section of Quality Assurance reports to track those reviews including
                        summary information                                                                                   High
                B-123
Configuration           The system shall allow an application administrator to create and maintain custom fields available
                        in all modules                                                                                        High
                B-124
Configuration           The system shall allow the creation of new users and assign permissions to different modules,         High
                        reports and functionality
Configuration   B-125   The system shall allow the system administrator to create, modify and delete users
                                                                                                                              High

Configuration   B-126   The system shall allow the system administrator to reset passwords for users
                                                                                                                              High

Configuration   B-127   The system shall allow the user to complete user assignments, assigning and un-assigning access
                        to properties from the contract.                                                                      High

Configuration   B-128   The system shall allow the system administrator to add, modify or delete the ACC (Annual
                        Contribution Contract ) according to HUD requirements
                                                                                                                              High
                B-129
Configuration           The system shall allow the system administrator to add, modify or delete the different hierarchy
                        levels that are assigned to a property similar to Sector, Region and division.                        High
                B-130
Configuration           The system shall allow the system administrator to modify details of a property administered by
                        HUD                                                                                                   High
                B-131   The system shall allow the system administrator to add, modify and delete different parameters
                        utilized by the system including any account information used to login to TRACS, Days of week
Configuration                                                                                                                 High
                        worked and start and end times for system use and any other miscellaneous settings required.
Configuration   B-132   The system shall allow the system administrator to add, modify or delete the Fee FMR rates
                        administered by HUD                                                                                   High




                                                                                                                                        27
                                           B-133
                    Configuration                    The system shall have a calendar that the system administrator can update yearly designating
                                                     holidays.                                                                                               High
                                           B-134
                    Configuration                    The system administrator should be able to import messages (vouchers) to HUD when there is
                                                     delay in sending or receiving.                                                                          High
                                           B-135
                    Configuration                    The system administrator should be able to review the scheduled times of vouchers being sent and
                                                     received in the system.                                                                                 High
                                           B-136
                    Configuration                    The admin should be able to monitor the sending and receiving of iMAX Logs to and from HUD
                                                     identifying if the export/import successful and generating a log file of what was transmitted.          High

                    Configuration          B-137     The system administrator shal have the authority to create, modify or delete the steps required by
                                                     HUD for Contract Renewals and Rent Adjustments                                                          High

                    Configuration          B-138     The system shall allow an administrator to create modify or delete Contract Renewal & Funding
                                                     Expiration Dates.                                                                                       High
                                           B-139
                    Configuration                    The user administrator should have the ability to customize any auto or manually generated letters
                                                     within the system                                                                                       High
                                           B-140
                    Configuration                    The system shall allow the administrator to modify the Unit details regarding unit types, sizes and
                                                     quantity of units.                                                                                     Critical
                        General            B-141     The system shall have an area that contains open, voided or closed work tasks from multiple
                                                     modules for ease of location and the ability to open that item and review/complete work and print if
                                                     needed.                                                                                                 High
                        General            B-142
                                                     The system shall provide an intuitive view of modules/screens that allows you to switch to different
                                                     modules/screens with ease.                                                                              High
                        General            B-143     The system shall allow for keyboard shortcuts to "tab" to different fields & hotkeys to move to
                                                     different areas of the application or screen.                                                           High
The Solicitation Coordinator will use this sum and the formula below to
                                                                                                                                          Total Raw Weighted Score:
calculate the section score. All calculations will use and result in numbers
rounded to two (2) places to the right of the decimal point.                           (sum of Raw Weighted Scores above by multiplying Priority Points x’s Req. Met %)

                         Total Raw Weighted Score
                Maximum Possible Raw Weighted Score
                                                                          X (55%)                                                                             SCORE:
                 (i.e., 5 x the sum of item weights above)
State Use – Evaluator Identification:




State Use – Solicitation Coordinator Signature, Printed Name & Date:




                                                                                                                                                                          28
                                                                         RFP ATTACHMENT 6.2. Section C




                                     TECHNICAL RESPONSE & EVALUATION GUIDE
6.2. SECTION C: GENERAL QUALIFICATIONS & EXPERIENCE. The Respondent must address all items (below) and provide,
in sequence, the information and documentation as required (referenced with the associated item references). The Respondent
must also detail the response page number for each item in the appropriate space below.
A Proposal Evaluation Team, made up of three or more State employees, will independently evaluate and score the response to
each item. Each evaluator will use the following whole number, raw point scale for scoring each item:
   0 = little value           1 = poor              2 = fair          3 = satisfactory           4 = good             5 = excellent
The Solicitation Coordinator will multiply the Item Score by the associated Evaluation Factor (indicating the relative emphasis of
the item in the overall evaluation). The resulting product will be the item’s Raw Weighted Score for purposes of calculating the
section score as indicated.


 RESPONDENT LEGAL ENTITY NAME:

  Respo
   nse
 Page #                                                                                               Item Score
              Item                     Section C — General Qualifications &                                              Raw Weighted
 (Respo
              Ref.                                 Experience                                       (Max 5pts each)         Score
  ndent
 comple
   tes)

             C-1        Detail the name, e-mail address, mailing address, telephone
                        number, and facsimile number of the person THDA should contact
                        regarding the response.
             C-2        Describe the Respondent’s form of business (i.e., individual, sole
                        proprietor, corporation, non- profit corporation, partnership, limited
                        liability company) and business location (physical location or
                        domicile).
             C-3        Detail the number of years the Respondent has been in business.
             C-4        Briefly describe how long the Respondent has been providing the
                        goods or services required by this RFP.
             C-5        Describe the Respondent’s number of employees, client base, and
                        location of offices.
             C-6        Provide a statement of whether there have been any mergers,
                        acquisitions, or change of control of the Respondent within the last
                        ten (10) years. If so, include an explanation providing relevant
                        details.
             C-7        Provide a statement of whether the Respondent or, to the
                        Respondent's knowledge, any of the Respondent’s employees,
                        agents, independent contractors, or subcontractors, involved in the
                        delivery of goods or performance of services on a contract pursuant
                        to this RFP, have been convicted of, pled guilty to, or pled nolo
                        contendere to any felony. If so, include an explanation providing
                        relevant details.
             C-8        Provide a statement of whether, in the last ten (10) years, the
                        Respondent has filed (or had filed against it) any bankruptcy or
                        insolvency proceeding, whether voluntary or involuntary, or
                        undergone the appointment of a receiver, trustee, or assignee for
                        the benefit of creditors. If so, include an explanation providing
                        relevant details.
             C-9        Provide a statement of whether there is any material, pending
                        litigation against the Respondent that the Respondent should
                        reasonably believe could adversely affect its ability to meet contract
                        requirements pursuant to this RFP or is likely to have a material
                                                                                                                                      29
                                                        RFP ATTACHMENT 6.2. Section C
       adverse effect on the Respondent’s financial condition. If such exists,
       list each separately, explain the relevant details, and attach the
       opinion of counsel addressing whether and to what extent it would
       impair the Respondent’s performance in a contract pursuant to this
       RFP.
       NOTE: All persons, agencies, firms, or other entities that provide legal
       opinions regarding the Respondent must be properly licensed to
       render such opinions. THDA may require the Respondent to submit
       proof of license for each person or entity that renders such opinions.
C-10   Provide a statement of whether there are any pending or in progress
       Securities Exchange Commission investigations involving the
       Respondent. If such exists, list each separately, explain the relevant
       details, and attach the opinion of counsel addressing whether and to
       what extent it will impair the Respondent’s performance in a contract
       pursuant to this RFP.
       NOTE: All persons, agencies, firms, or other entities that provide
       legal opinions regarding the Respondent must be properly licensed
       to render such opinions. THDA may require the Respondent to
       submit proof of license for each person or entity that renders such
       opinions.

C-11   Provide a brief, descriptive statement detailing evidence of the
       Respondent’s ability to deliver the goods or services sought under
       this RFP (e.g., prior experience, training, certifications, resources,
       program and quality management systems, etc.).
C-12   Provide a narrative description of the proposed project team, its
       members, and organizational structure along with an
       organizational chart identifying the key people who will be
       assigned to deliver the goods or services required by this RFP.
C-13   Provide a personnel roster listing the names of key people who the
       Respondent will assign to meet the Respondent’s requirements
       under this RFP along with the estimated number of hours that each
       individual will devote to that performance. Follow the personnel
       roster with a resume for each of the people listed. The resumes
       must detail the individual’s title, education, current position with the
       Respondent, and employment history.
C-14   Provide a statement of whether the Respondent intends to use
       subcontractors to meet the Respondent’s requirements of any
       contract awarded pursuant to this RFP, and if so, detail:
       (a) the names of the subcontractors along with the contact
           person, mailing address, telephone number, and e-mail
           address for each;
       (b) a description of the scope and portions of the goods each
           subcontractor involved in the delivery of goods or
           performance of the services each subcontractor will
           perform; and
       (c) a statement specifying that each proposed subcontractor has
           expressly assented to being proposed as a subcontractor in
           the Respondent’s response to this RFP.
C-15   Provide documentation of the Respondent’s commitment to
       diversity as represented by the following:
       (a) Business Strategy. Provide a description of the Respondent’s
            existing programs and procedures designed to encourage
            and foster commerce with business enterprises owned by
            minorities, women, service-disabled veterans, persons with
            disabilities, and small business enterprises. Please also
            include a list of the Respondent’s certifications as a diversity
            business, if applicable.
       (b) Business Relationships. Provide a listing of the Respondent’s

                                                                                        30
                                                        RFP ATTACHMENT 6.2. Section C
            current contracts with business enterprises owned by
            minorities, women, service-disabled veterans, persons with
            disabilities, and small business enterprises. Please include the
            following information:
            (i) contract description;
            (ii) contractor name and ownership characteristics (i.e.,
                  ethnicity, gender, service-disabled veteran-owned or
                  persons with disabilities);
            (iii) contractor contact name and telephone number.
        (c) Estimated Participation. Provide an estimated level of
            participation by business enterprises owned by minorities,
            women, service-disabled veterans, persons with disabilities and
            small business enterprises if a contract is awarded to the
            Respondent pursuant to this RFP. Please include the following
            information:
            (i) a percentage (%) indicating the participation estimate.
                  (Express the estimated participation number as a
                  percentage of the total estimated contract value that will
                  be dedicated to business with subcontractors and supply
                  contractors having such ownership characteristics only
                  and DO NOT INCLUDE DOLLAR AMOUNTS);
             (ii) anticipated goods or services contract descriptions;
             (iii) names and ownership characteristics (i.e., ethnicity,
                   gender, service-disabled veterans, or disability) of
                   anticipated subcontractors and supply contractors.

              NOTE: In order to claim status as a Diversity Business
              Enterprise under this contract, businesses must be certified by
              the Governor’s Office of Diversity Business Enterprise (Go-
              DBE). Please visit the Go-DBE website at
              https://tn.diversitysoftware.com/FrontEnd/StartCertification.asp
              ?TN=tn&XID=9810 for more information.
         (d) Workforce. Provide the percentage of the Respondent’s total
              current employees by ethnicity and gender.
             NOTE: Respondents that demonstrate a commitment to diversity
              will advance State efforts to expand opportunity to do business
              with THDA as contractors and subcontractors.
                    Response evaluations will recognize the positive
                    qualifications and experience of a Respondent that does
                    business with enterprises owned by minorities, women,
                    service- disabled veterans, persons with disabilities, and
                    small business enterprises and who offer a diverse
                    workforce.
C-16   Provide a statement of whether or not the Respondent has any current
       contracts with the State of Tennessee or has completed any contracts
       with the State of Tennessee within the previous five (5) year period. If
       so, provide the following information for all of the current and
       completed contracts:
       (a)        the name, title, telephone number and e-mail address of the
                  THDA contact knowledgeable about the contract;
       (b)        the procuring State agency name;
       (c)        a brief description of the contract’s scope of services;
       (d)        the contract period; and
       (e)        the contract number.

       NOTES:
          •   Current or prior contracts with THDA are not a prerequisite
              and are not required for the maximum evaluation score, and
              the existence of such contracts with THDA will not
              automatically result in the addition or deduction of evaluation
              points.
          •   Each evaluator will generally consider the results of inquiries
              by THDA regarding all contracts noted.
                                                                                        31
                                                      RFP ATTACHMENT 6.2. Section C


C-17
       Provide customer references from individuals who are not current
       or former State employees for projects similar to the goods or
       services sought under this RFP and which represent:
        two (2) accounts Respondent currently services that are similar in
          size to THDA; and
        three (3) completed projects.
       References from at least three (3) different individuals are required
       to satisfy the requirements above, e.g., an individual may provide a
       reference about a completed project and another reference about a
       currently serviced account. The standard reference questionnaire,
       which must be used and completed, is provided at RFP Attachment
       6.4. References that are not completed as required may be deemed
       non-responsive and may not be considered.
       The Respondent will be solely responsible for obtaining fully
       completed reference questionnaires and including them in the
       sealed Technical Response. In order to obtain and submit the
       completed reference questionnaires follow the process below.
       (a) Add the Respondent’s name to the standard reference
       questionnaire at RFP Attachment
             6.4. and make a copy for each reference.
       (b) Send a reference questionnaire and new, standard #10 envelope
             to each reference.
       (c) Instruct the reference to:
             (i) complete the reference questionnaire;
             (ii) sign and date the completed reference questionnaire;
             (iii) seal the completed, signed, and dated reference
                   questionnaire within the envelope provided;
             (iv) sign his or her name in ink across the sealed portion of the
                   envelope; and
             (v) return the sealed envelope directly to the Respondent
                   (the Respondent may wish to give each reference a
                   deadline, such that the Respondent will be able to
                   collect all required references in time to include them
                   within the sealed Technical Response).
        (d)        Do NOT open the sealed references upon receipt.
        (e)        Enclose all sealed reference envelopes within a
                   larger, labeled envelope for inclusion in the
                   Technical Response as required.
                   NOTES:
                        •    THDA will not accept late references or
                             references submitted by any means other
                             than that which is described above, and each
                             reference questionnaire submitted must be
                             completed as required.
                        •    THDA will not review more than the number
                             of required references indicated above.
                        •    While THDA will base its reference check on
                             the contents of the sealed reference
                             envelopes included in the Technical
                             Response package, THDA reserves the right
                             to confirm and clarify information detailed in
                             the completed reference questionnaires, and
                             may consider clarification responses in the
                             evaluation of references. THDA is under no
                             obligation to clarify any reference
                             information.


                                                                                      32
                                                                                RFP ATTACHMENT 6.2. Section C
            C-18
                          Provide a statement and any relevant details addressing whether
                          the Respondent is any of the following:
                          (a)     is presently debarred, suspended, proposed for debarment,
                          or voluntarily excluded from covered transactions by any federal or
                          state department or agency;
                          (b)      has within the past three (3) years, been convicted of, or
                          had a civil judgment rendered against the contracting party from
                          commission of fraud, or a criminal offence in connection with
                          obtaining, attempting to obtain, or performing a public (federal,
                          state, or local) transaction or grant under a public transaction;
                          violation of federal or state antitrust statutes or commission of
                          embezzlement, theft, forgery, bribery, falsification or destruction of
                          records, making false statements, or receiving stolen property;
                          (c)    is presently indicted or otherwise criminally or civilly
                          charged by a government entity (federal, state, or local) with
                          commission of any of the offenses detailed above; and
                          (d)    has within a three (3) year period preceding the contract
                          had one or more public transactions (federal, state, or local)
                          terminated for cause or default.


                              Total Raw Weighted Score                                                   Total Raw Weighted
                                                                                                         Score:
                        Maximum Possible Raw Weighted                     X(15%)                         (sum of Raw
                                       Score                                                             Weighted Scores
                     (i.e., 5 x the sum of item weights above)                                           above)
State Use – Evaluator Identification




State Use – Solicitation Coordinator Signature, Printed Name & Date:




The Solicitation Coordinator will use this sum and the formula above to calculate the section score. All calculations will use and result in numbers
rounded to two (2) places to the right of the decimal point.




                                                                                                                                                   33
                                                                                 RFP ATTACHMENT 6.2. SECTION D.

                                 TECHNICAL RESPONSE & EVALUATION GUIDE
6.2. SECTION D: TECHNICAL QUALIFICATIONS, EXPERIENCE & APPROACH. The Respondent must address all items
(below) and provide, in sequence, the information and documentation as required (referenced with the associated item
references). The Respondent must also detail the response page number for each item in the appropriate space below.
A Proposal Evaluation Team, made up of three or more State employees, will independently evaluate and score the
response to each item. Each evaluator will use the following whole number, raw point scale for scoring each item:
   0 = little value        1 = poor             2 = fair        3 = satisfactory         4 = good          5 = excellent
The Solicitation Coordinator will multiply the Item Score by the associated Evaluation Factor (indicating the relative
emphasis of the item in the overall evaluation). The resulting product will be the item’s Raw Weighted Score for purposes
of calculating the section score as indicated.


RESPONDENT LEGAL ENTITY NAME:



 Response
                                                                                          Item Score         Raw Weighted
   Page #         Item             Section D— Technical Qualifications,
                                                                                         (Max 5pts each)        Score
(Respondent       Ref.                Experience & Approach Items
 completes)

                 D-1     Provide a narrative that illustrates the Respondent’s
                         understanding of THDA’s requirements and project
                         schedule.
                 D-2     Provide a narrative that illustrates how the Respondent will
                         complete the scope of services, accomplish required
                         objectives, and meet THDA’s project schedule.
                 D-3     Provide a narrative that illustrates how the Respondent will
                         manage the project, ensure completion of the scope of
                         services, and accomplish required objectives within
                         THDA’s project schedule.
                         On-premise installed software is preferred. If not cloud-
                 D-4
                         based, the software must meet the following minimum
                         requirements:
                              •   Run on Microsoft SQL and support SQL 2017 or
                                  newer. No other database platform will be
                                  accepted, including MySQL or similar.
                              •   Run on Windows Server 2018 or newer.
                              •   Execute via a web-based client; no client-server
                                  locally installed applications will be considered.
                              •   Active-directory integrated, including role-based
                                  permission assignments for modules or screens.
                         If SAAS, i.e. cloud-based software, then it must work via a
                 D-5
                         proxy. Additionally, a custom-reporting module must be
                         available inherit to the system. However, a complete data
                         export must be made available to THDA upon request.


                         The system must include an administrative or “SuperUser”
                 D-6
                         role that is the only one that can perform user assignments
                         and permission changes.
                         All data housed in the system, whether on-premise or
                 D-7
                         hosted is owned by THDA and can be requested and
                         accessed in its entirety at any time.
                         Technical Support hours from 8am CST until 6pm CST
                 D-8
                         and/or emergency after hours and weekend contact
                         information provided.
                         Provide a narrative of how you handle being notified of a new
                 D-9     HUD requirement that necessitates updating your software.
                         How long does it take to deliver that update to THDA?

                                                                                                                            34
                            Total Raw Weighted Score                                                         Total Raw
                                                                                                             Weighted
                     Maximum Possible Raw Weighted                                                              Score:
                                    Score                                 X (15%)                          (sum of Raw
                  (i.e., 5 x the sum of item weights above)                                                   Weighted
                                                                                                         Scores above)
State Use – Evaluator Identification:




State Use – Solicitation Coordinator Signature, Printed Name & Date:




The Solicitation Coordinator will use this sum and the formula above to calculate the section score. All calculations will use and result in
numbers rounded to two (2) places to the right of the decimal point.




                                                                                                                                               35
                                                                                                                                 11-08-18 RFP
                                                                                                             RFP ATTACHMENT 6.3

                                 6.3 COST PROPOSAL & SCORING GUIDE
              NOTICE: THIS COST PROPOSAL MUST BE COMPLETED EXACTLY AS REQUIRED
COST PROPOSAL SCHEDULE— The Cost Proposal, detailed below, shall indicate the proposed price for goods or
services defined in the Scope of Services of the RFP Attachment 6.6., Pro Forma Contract and for the entire contract
period. The Cost Proposal shall remain valid for at least one hundred twenty (120) days subsequent to the date of the Cost
Proposal opening and thereafter in accordance with any contract resulting from this RFP. All monetary amounts shall be in
U.S. currency and limited to two (2) places to the right of the decimal point.
NOTICE:      The Evaluation Factor associated with each cost item is for evaluation purposes only. The evaluation factors do
             NOT and should NOT be construed as any type of volume guarantee or minimum purchase quantity. The
             evaluation factors shall NOT create rights, interests, or claims of entitlement in the Respondent.
             Notwithstanding the cost items herein, pursuant to the second paragraph of the Pro Forma Contract section
             C.1. (refer to RFP Attachment 6.6.), “THDA is under no obligation to request work from the Contractor in any
             specific dollar amounts or to request any work at all from the Contractor during any period of this Contract.”
             This Cost Proposal must be signed, in the space below, by an individual empowered to bind the Respondent to
             the provisions of this RFP and any contract awarded pursuant to it. If said individual is not the President or
             Chief Executive Officer, this document must attach evidence showing the individual’s authority to legally bind
             the Respondent.


           RESPONDENT SIGNATURE:


               PRINTED NAME & TITLE:


                                      DATE:


 RESPONDENT LEGAL ENTITY
 NAME:
                                                                                                           State Use Only
         Cost Item Description                            Proposed Cost                       Evaluation           Evaluation Cost
                                                                                                Factor                (cost x factor)
Implementation                                  $
                                                                                              N/A
Training                                        $
                                                                                              N/A
Data Conversion                                 $
                                                                                              N/A
Base Software Modules                           $
                                                                                              N/A
Annual Maintenance and Support                  $
                                                                                              N/A
                                   EVALUATION COST AMOUNT (sum of evaluation costs above):
    The Solicitation Coordinator will use this sum and the formula below to calculate the Cost Proposal Score.
         Numbers rounded to two (2) places to the right of the decimal point will be standard for calculations.

    lowest evaluation cost amount from all proposals
                                                                     x (15%)                             =
                                                                                                    SCORE:
           evaluation cost amount being evaluated

 State Use – Solicitation Coordinator Signature, Printed Name & Date:




                                                                                                                                                36
                                                                                        RFP ATTACHMENT 6.4.

                                        REFERENCE QUESTIONNAIRE
The standard reference questionnaire provided on the following pages of this attachment MUST be
completed by all individuals offering a reference for the Respondent.
The Respondent will be solely responsible for obtaining completed reference questionnaires as required (refer to
RFP Attachment 6.2., Technical Response & Evaluation Guide, Section C, Item C.17.), and for enclosing the
sealed reference envelopes within the Respondent’s Technical Response.




                                                                                                                   37
                                                                            RFP ATTACHMENT 6.4. continued

                               RFP # 31620-00544 REFERENCE QUESTIONNAIRE

REFERENCE SUBJECT: RESPONDENT NAME (completed by Respondent before reference is requested)

The “reference subject” specified above, intends to submit a response to THDA in response to the Request for
Proposals (RFP) indicated. As a part of such response, the reference subject must include a number of
completed and sealed reference questionnaires (using this form).
Each individual responding to this reference questionnaire is asked to follow these instructions:
 complete this questionnaire (either using the form provided or an exact duplicate of this document);
 sign and date the completed questionnaire;
 seal the completed, signed, and dated questionnaire in a new standard #10 envelope;
 sign in ink across the sealed portion of the envelope; and
 return the sealed envelope containing the completed questionnaire directly to the reference subject.


(1)    What is the name of the individual, company, organization, or entity responding to this reference
       questionnaire?




(2)    Please provide the following information about the individual completing this reference
       questionnaire on behalf of the above-named individual, company, organization, or entity.


          NAME:


          TITLE:


          TELEPHONE #


          E-MAIL ADDRESS:


(3)    What goods or services does/did the reference subject provide to your company or organization?




(4)    What is the level of your overall satisfaction with the reference subject as a vendor of the goods
       or services described above?
                      Please respond by circling the appropriate number on the scale below.


                             1            2            3            4           5
         least satisfied                                                                 most satisfied


                                                                                                               38
RFP # 31620-00544 REFERENCE QUESTIONNAIRE — PAGE 2

       If you circled 3 or less above, what could the reference subject have done to improve that rating?




(5)    If the goods or services that the reference subject provided to your company or organization are
       completed, were the goods or services provided in compliance with the terms of the contract, on
       time, and within budget? If not, please explain.




(6)    If the reference subject is still providing goods or services to your company or organization, are
       these goods or services being provided in compliance with the terms of the contract, on time, and
       within budget? If not, please explain.




(7)    How satisfied are you with the reference subject’s ability to perform based on your expectations
       and according to the contractual arrangements?




(8)    In what areas of goods or service delivery does/did the reference subject excel?




(9)    In what areas of goods or service delivery does/did the reference subject fall short?




(10)   What is the level of your satisfaction with the reference subject’s project management structures,
       processes, and personnel?
                     Please respond by circling the appropriate number on the scale below.


                            1            2            3            4           5
        least satisfied                                                                 most satisfied



       What, if any, comments do you have regarding the score selected above?




                                                                                                            39
RFP # 31620-00544 REFERENCE QUESTIONNAIRE — PAGE 3


(11)   Considering the staff assigned by the reference subject to deliver the goods or services described
       in response to question 3 above, how satisfied are you with the technical abilities,
       professionalism, and interpersonal skills of the individuals assigned?
                     Please respond by circling the appropriate number on the scale below.



                              1                2        3             4             5
        least satisfied                                                                       most satisfied



       What, if any, comments do you have regarding the score selected above?




(12)   Would you contract again with the reference subject for the same or similar goods or services?
                     Please respond by circling the appropriate number on the scale below.


                              1                2        3             4             5
        least satisfied                                                                       most satisfied



       What, if any, comments do you have regarding the score selected above?




       REFERENCE SIGNATURE:
          (by the individual completing this
         request for reference information)

                                                   (must be the same as the signature across the envelope seal)

                                  DATE:




                                                                                                                  40
                                                                                           11-08-18 RFP

                                                                              RFP ATTACHMENT 6.5.

                                            SCORE SUMMARY MATRIX

                                   RESPONDENT NAME          RESPONDENT NAME    RESPONDENT NAME

System Functionality
Requirements 55%
( 6.2., Section B)
(maximum: 10 pts each)

EVALUATOR NAME

EVALUATOR NAME

REPEAT AS NECESSARY

                                  AVERAGE:                 AVERAGE:           AVERAGE:

General Qualifications &
Experience 15%
(6.2., Section C)
(maximum: 5 pts each)

EVALUATOR NAME

EVALUATOR NAME

REPEAT AS NECESSARY

                                  AVERAGE:                 AVERAGE:           AVERAGE:

Technical
Qualifications,
Experience &
Approach 15%
(6.2., Section D)
(maximum: 5 pts each)
EVALUATOR NAME


EVALUATOR NAME


EVALUATOR NAME


COST PROPOSAL 15%
                                     SCORE:                  SCORE:             SCORE:
(6.3)
(maximum: 20)

          TOTAL RESPONSE
        EVALUATION SCORE:
          (maximum: 100)

Solicitation Coordinator Signature, Printed Name & Date:




                                                                                                          42
                                                                                               RFP ATTACHMENT 6.6.

                                       RFP # NUMBER PRO FORMA CONTRACT
     The Pro Forma Contract detailed in following pages of this exhibit contains some “blanks” (signified by
     descriptions in capital letters) that will be completed with appropriate information in the final contract
     resulting from the RFP.




                                                CONTRACT
                              BETWEEN TENNESSEE HOUSING DEVELOPMENT AGENCY
                                                  AND
                                            CONTRACTOR NAME

This Contract, by and between Tennessee Housing Development Agency, an instrumentality and political subdivision of
the State of Tennessee, hereinafter referred to as “THDA” and Contractor Legal Entity Name, hereinafter referred to as
the “Contractor,” is for the provision of Scope of Goods or Services Caption, as further defined in the "SCOPE OF
SERVICES."

The Contractor is a/an Individual, For-Profit Corporation, Non-Profit Corporation, Special Purpose Corporation Or
Association, Partnership, Joint Venture, Or Limited Liability Company.
Contractor Place of Incorporation or Organization: Location
Contractor Edison Registration ID # Number


A.        SCOPE OF SERVICES:

A.1.      The Contractor shall provide all goods or services and deliverables as required, described, and detailed below
          and shall meet all service and delivery timelines as specified by this Contract.

A.#.      Specify the goods, services, deliverables, technical specifications, timelines, and delivery requirements that the
          Contractor must provide and meet (sufficient detail is required to ensure contractor accountability and definitive
          results).

B.        CONTRACT TERM:

          This Contract shall be effective on DATE (“Effective Date”) and extend for a period of number (#) months after
          the Effective Date (“Term”). The State shall have no obligation for goods or services provided by the Contractor
          prior to the Effective Date.

C.        PAYMENT TERMS AND CONDITIONS:

C.1.      Maximum Liability. In no event shall the maximum liability of THDA under this Contract exceed Written Dollar
          Amount ($Number) (“Maximum Liability”). The payment rates in Section C.3 shall constitute the entire
          compensation due the Contractor for the Service and all of the Contractor's obligations hereunder regardless of
          the difficulty, materials or equipment required. The payment rates include, but are not limited to, all applicable
          taxes, fees, overheads, and all other direct and indirect costs incurred or to be incurred by the Contractor.


section                                                                                                                    1
          The Contractor is not entitled to be paid the maximum liability for any period under the Contract or any
          extensions of the Contract for work not requested by THDA. The maximum liability represents available funds
          for payment to the Contractor and does not guarantee payment of any such funds to the Contractor under this
          Contract unless THDA requests work and the Contractor performs said work. In which case, the Contractor
          shall be paid in accordance with the payment rates detailed in Section C.3. THDA is under no obligation to
          request work from the Contractor in any specific dollar amounts or to request any work at all from the Contractor
          during any period of this Contract.

C.2.      Compensation Firm. The payment rates and the maximum liability of THDA under this Contract are firm for the
          duration of the Contract and are not subject to escalation for any reason unless amended.

C.3.      Payment Methodology. The Contractor shall be compensated based on the payment rates herein for units of
          service authorized by THDA in a total amount not to exceed the Contract Maximum Liability established in
          Section C.1.

          a.      The Contractor’s compensation shall be contingent upon the satisfactory completion of units,
                  milestones, or increments of service defined in Section A.

          b.      The Contractor shall be compensated for said units, milestones, or increments of service based upon
                  the following payment rates:



 Goods or Services Description                                       Amount
 (per compensable increment)
 Milestone                                                           $ Number
 Unit                                                                $ Number each
 Job Title /Activity                                                 $ Number per Hour /Day /etc.
 Use & Repeat Rows Above as Necessary
 Goods or Services Description                                       Amount
 (per compensable increment)


C.4.      Travel Compensation. The Contractor shall not be compensated or reimbursed for travel, meals, or lodging.

C.5.      Invoice Requirements. The Contractor shall invoice THDA only for completed increments of service and for the
          amount stipulated in Section C.3, above, and as required below prior to any payment.

          a.      The Contractor shall submit invoices no more often than monthly, with all necessary supporting
                  documentation, to:

                  THDA
                  Accounts Payable (AP@thda.org)
                  Andrew Jackson Building
                  502 Deaderick Street, Third Floor
                  Nashville, TN 37243

          b.      The Contractor agrees that each invoice submitted shall clearly and accurately (all calculations must be
                  extended and totaled correctly) detail the following required information:
                  (1)    Invoice/Reference Number (assigned by the Contractor);
                  (2)    Invoice Date;
                  (3)    Invoice Period (period to which all invoiced charges are applicable);
                  (4)    Contract Number (assigned by THDA to this Contract);
                  (5)    Account Name: Tennessee Housing Development Agency, Fiscal Division;


section                                                                                                                  2
                  (6)     Account/Customer Number (uniquely assigned by the Contractor to the above-referenced
                          Account Name);
                  (7)     Contractor Name;
                  (8)     Contractor Federal Employer Identification Number or Social Security Number (as referenced in
                          this Contract);
                  (9)     Contractor Contact (name, phone, and/or fax for the individual to contact with billing questions);
                  (10)    Contractor Remittance Address;
                  (11)    Complete Itemization of Charges, which shall detail the following:

                          i.      Service or Milestone Description (including name /title as applicable) of each service
                                  invoiced;
                          ii.     Number of Completed Units, Increments, Hours, or Days as applicable, of each service
                                  invoiced;
                          iii.    Applicable Payment Rate (as stipulated in Section C.3.) of each service invoiced;
                          iv.     Amount Due by Service; and
                          v.      Total Amount Due for the invoice period.

          c.      The Contractor understands and agrees that an invoice to THDA under this Contract shall:

                  (1)     include only charges for service described in Contract Section A and in accordance with
                          payment terms and conditions set forth in Contract Section C;
                  (2)     not include any future work but will only be submitted for completed service; and
                  (3)     not include sales tax or shipping charges.

          d.      The Contractor agrees that timeframe for payment (and any discounts) begins when THDA is in receipt
                  of each invoice meeting the minimum requirements above. THDA will pay Contractor within 45 days of
                  receipt of an invoice meeting the above requirements.

          e.      The Contractor shall complete and sign a "Substitute W-9 Form” provided to the Contractor by THDA.
                  The taxpayer identification number contained in the Substitute W-9 submitted to THDA shall agree to
                  the Federal Employer Identification Number or Social Security Number referenced in this Contract for
                  the Contractor. The Contractor shall not invoice THDA for services until THDA has received this
                  completed form.

C.6.      Payment of Invoice. The payment of the invoice by THDA shall not prejudice THDA's right to object to or
          question any invoice or matter in relation thereto. Such payment by THDA shall neither be construed as
          acceptance of any part of the work or service provided nor as an approval of any of the amounts invoiced
          therein.

C.7.      Invoice Reductions. The Contractor's invoice shall be subject to reduction for amounts included in any invoice
          or payment theretofore made which are determined by THDA, on the basis of audits conducted in accordance
          with the terms of this Contract, not to constitute proper remuneration for compensable services.

C.8.      Deductions. THDA reserves the right to deduct from amounts which are or shall become due and payable to
          the Contractor under this or any Contract between the Contractor and THDA any amounts which are or shall
          become due and payable to THDA by the Contractor.

C.9.      Automatic Deposits. The Contractor shall complete and sign an "Authorization Agreement for Automatic Deposit
          (ACH Credits) Form." This form shall be provided to the Contractor by THDA. Once this form has been
          completed and submitted to THDA by the Contractor all payments to the Contractor, under this or any other
          Contract the Contractor has with THDA shall be made by Automated Clearing House (ACH). The Contractor
          shall not invoice THDA for services until the Contractor has completed this form and submitted it to THDA.

D.        STANDARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS:

D.1.      Required Approvals. THDA is not bound by this Contract until it is approved by the appropriate State officials in
          accordance with applicable Tennessee State laws and regulations.


section                                                                                                                    3
D.2.      Modification and Amendment. This Contract may be modified only by a written amendment executed by all
          parties hereto and approved by the appropriate Tennessee State officials in accordance with applicable
          Tennessee State laws and regulations.

D.3.      Termination for Convenience. THDA may terminate this Contract without cause for any reason. Said
          termination shall not be deemed a Breach of Contract by THDA. THDA shall give the Contractor at least thirty
          days (30) days written notice before the effective termination date. The Contractor shall be entitled to receive
          compensation for satisfactory, authorized service completed as of the termination date, but in no event shall
          THDA be liable to the Contractor for compensation for any service which has not been rendered. Upon such
          termination, the Contractor shall have no right to any actual general, special, incidental, consequential, or any
          other damages whatsoever of any description or amount.

D.4.      Termination for Cause. If the Contractor fails to properly perform its obligations under this Contract in a timely
          or proper manner, or if the Contractor violates any terms of this Contract, THDA shall have the right to
          immediately terminate the Contract and withhold payments in excess of fair compensation for completed
          services. Notwithstanding the above, the Contractor shall not be relieved of liability to THDA for damages
          sustained by virtue of any breach of this Contract by the Contractor.

D.5.      Subcontracting. The Contractor shall not assign this Contract or enter into a subcontract for any of the services
          performed under this Contract without obtaining the prior written approval of THDA. If such subcontracts are
          approved by THDA, they shall contain, at a minimum, sections of this Contract below pertaining to "Conflicts of
          Interest," "Nondiscrimination," and “Records” (as identified by the section headings). Notwithstanding any use
          of approved subcontractors, the Contractor shall be the prime contractor and shall be responsible for all work
          performed.

D.6.      Conflicts of Interest. The Contractor warrants that no part of the total Contract Amount shall be paid directly or
          indirectly to an employee or official of THDA as wages, compensation, or gifts in exchange for acting as an
          officer, agent, employee, subcontractor, or consultant to the Contractor in connection with any work
          contemplated or performed relative to this Contract.

D.7.      Nondiscrimination. The Contractor hereby agrees, warrants, and assures that no person shall be excluded from
          participation in, be denied benefits of, or be otherwise subjected to discrimination in the performance of this
          Contract or in the employment practices of the Contractor on the grounds of disability, age, race, color, religion,
          sex, national origin, or any other classification protected by Federal, Tennessee State constitutional, or statutory
          law. The Contractor shall, upon request, show proof of such nondiscrimination and shall post in conspicuous
          places, available to all employees and applicants, notices of nondiscrimination.

D.8.      Prohibition of Illegal Immigrants. The requirements of Public Acts of 2006, Chapter Number 878, of the State of
          Tennessee, addressing the use of illegal immigrants in the performance of any Contract to supply goods or
          services to THDA, shall be a material provision of this Contract, a breach of which shall be grounds for
          monetary and other penalties, up to and including termination of this Contract.

          a.      The Contractor hereby attests, certifies, warrants, and assures that the Contractor shall not knowingly
                  utilize the services of an illegal immigrant in the performance of this Contract and shall not knowingly
                  utilize the services of any subcontractor who will utilize the services of an illegal immigrant in the
                  performance of this Contract. The Contractor shall reaffirm this attestation, in writing, by submitting to
                  THDA a completed and signed copy of the document at Attachment A, hereto, semi-annually during the
                  period of this Contract. Such attestations shall be maintained by the Contractor and made available to
                  state officials upon request.

          b.      Prior to the use of any subcontractor in the performance of this Contract, and semi-annually thereafter,
                  during the period of this Contract, the Contractor shall obtain and retain a current, written attestation
                  that the subcontractor shall not knowingly utilize the services of an illegal immigrant to perform work
                  relative to this Contract and shall not knowingly utilize the services of any subcontractor who will utilize
                  the services of an illegal immigrant to perform work relative to this Contract. Attestations obtained from

section                                                                                                                        4
                  such subcontractors shall be maintained by the Contractor and made available to state officials upon
                  request.

          c.      The Contractor shall maintain records for all personnel used in the performance of this Contract. Said
                  records shall be subject to review and random inspection at any reasonable time upon reasonable
                  notice by THDA.

          d.      The Contractor understands and agrees that failure to comply with this section will be subject to the
                  sanctions of Public Chapter 878 of 2006 for acts or omissions occurring after its effective date. This law
                  requires the Commissioner of Finance and Administration to prohibit a contractor from contracting with,
                  or submitting an offer, proposal, or bid to contract with THDA of Tennessee to supply goods or services
                  for a period of one year after a contractor is discovered to have knowingly used the services of illegal
                  immigrants during the performance of this Contract.

          e.      For purposes of this Contract, "illegal immigrant" shall be defined as any person who is not either a
                  United States citizen, a Lawful Permanent Resident, or a person whose physical presence in the United
                  States is authorized or allowed by the federal Department of Homeland Security and who, under federal
                  immigration laws and/or regulations, is authorized to be employed in the U.S. or is otherwise authorized
                  to provide services under the Contract.

D.9.      Records. The Contractor shall maintain documentation for all charges under this Contract. The books, records,
          and documents of the Contractor, insofar as they relate to work performed or money received under this
          Contract, shall be maintained for a period of three (3) full years from the date of the final payment and shall be
          subject to audit at any reasonable time and upon reasonable notice by THDA, the Comptroller of the Treasury,
          or their duly appointed representatives. The financial statements shall be prepared in accordance with generally
          accepted accounting principles.

D.10.     Prevailing Wage Rates. All contracts for construction, erection, or demolition or to install goods or materials that
          involve the expenditure of any funds derived from THDA require compliance with the prevailing wage laws as
          provided in Tennessee Code Annotated, Section 12-4-401 et seq..

D.11.     Monitoring. The Contractor’s activities conducted and records maintained pursuant to this Contract shall be
          subject to monitoring and evaluation by THDA, the Comptroller of the Treasury, or their duly appointed
          representatives.

D.12.     Progress Reports. The Contractor shall submit brief, periodic, progress reports to THDA as requested.

D.13.     Strict Performance. Failure by any party to this Contract to insist in any one or more cases upon the strict
          performance of any of the terms, covenants, conditions, or provisions of this Contract shall not be construed as
          a waiver or relinquishment of any such term, covenant, condition, or provision. No term or condition of this
          Contract shall be held to be waived, modified, or deleted except by a written amendment signed by the parties
          hereto.

D.14.     Independent Contractor. The parties hereto, in the performance of this Contract, shall not act as employees,
          partners, joint venturers, or associates of one another. It is expressly acknowledged by the parties hereto that
          such parties are independent contracting entities and that nothing in this Contract shall be construed to create
          an employer/employee relationship or to allow either to exercise control or direction over the manner or method
          by which the other transacts its business affairs or provides its usual services. The employees or agents of one
          party shall not be deemed or construed to be the employees or agents of the other party for any purpose
          whatsoever.

          The Contractor, being an independent contractor and not an employee of THDA, agrees to carry adequate
          public liability and other appropriate forms of insurance, including adequate public liability and other appropriate
          forms of insurance on the Contractor’s employees, and to pay all applicable taxes incident to this Contract.

D.15.     State Liability. THDA shall have no liability except as specifically provided in this Contract.

section                                                                                                                      5
D.16.     Force Majeure. The obligations of the parties to this Contract are subject to prevention by causes beyond the
          parties’ control that could not be avoided by the exercise of due care including, but not limited to, natural
          disasters, riots, wars, epidemics, or any other similar cause.

D.17.     State and Federal Compliance. The Contractor shall comply with all applicable State and Federal laws and
          regulations in the performance of this Contract.

D.18.     Governing Law. This Contract shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of
          Tennessee. The Contractor agrees that it will be subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of the courts of the State of
          Tennessee in actions that may arise under this Contract. The Contractor acknowledges and agrees that any
          rights or claims against THDA or its employees hereunder, and any remedies arising therefrom, shall be subject
          to and limited to those rights and remedies, if any, available under Tennessee Code Annotated, Sections 9-8-
          101 through 9-8-407.

D.19.     Completeness. This Contract is complete and contains the entire understanding between the parties relating to
          the subject matter contained herein, including all the terms and conditions of the parties’ agreement. This
          Contract supersedes any and all prior understandings, representations, negotiations, and agreements between
          the parties relating hereto, whether written or oral.

D.20.     Severability. If any terms and conditions of this Contract are held to be invalid or unenforceable as a matter of
          law, the other terms and conditions hereof shall not be affected thereby and shall remain in full force and effect.
          To this end, the terms and conditions of this Contract are declared severable.

D.21.     Headings. Section headings of this Contract are for reference purposes only and shall not be construed as part
          of this Contract.

E.        SPECIAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS:

E.1.      Conflicting Terms and Conditions. Should any of these special terms and conditions conflict with any other
          terms and conditions of this Contract, these special terms and conditions shall control.

E.2.      Communications and Contacts. All instructions, notices, consents, demands, or other communications required
          or contemplated by this Contract shall be in writing and shall be made by certified, first class mail, return receipt
          requested and postage prepaid, by overnight courier service with an asset tracking system, or by EMAIL or
          facsimile transmission with recipient confirmation. Any such communications, regardless of method of
          transmission, shall be addressed to the respective party at the appropriate mailing address, facsimile number,
          or EMAIL address as set forth below or to that of such other party or address, as may be hereafter specified by
          written notice.
          THDA:
          State Contact Name & Title
          State Agency Name
          Address
          Email Address
          Telephone # Number
          FAX # Number

          The Contractor:
          Contractor Contact Name & Title
          Contractor Name
          Address
          Email Address
          Telephone # Number
          FAX # Number




section                                                                                                                       6
          All instructions, notices, consents, demands, or other communications shall be considered effectively given
          upon receipt or recipient confirmation as may be required.
E.3.      Subject to Funds Availability. The Contract is subject to the appropriation and availability of State and/or
          Federal funds. In the event that the funds are not appropriated or are otherwise unavailable, THDA reserves
          the right to terminate the Contract upon written notice to the Contractor. Said termination shall not be deemed a
          breach of Contract by THDA. Upon receipt of the written notice, the Contractor shall cease all work associated
          with the Contract. Should such an event occur, the Contractor shall be entitled to compensation for all
          satisfactory and authorized services completed as of the termination date. Upon such termination, the
          Contractor shall have no right to recover from THDA any actual, general, special, incidental, consequential, or
          any other damages whatsoever of any description or amount.

E.4.      The Contractor shall be registered with the Department of Revenue for the collection of Tennessee sales and
          use tax. This registration requirement is a material requirement of this Contract.

 IN WITNESS WHEREOF,



 CONTRACTOR LEGAL ENTITY NAME:



 CONTRACTOR SIGNATURE                                                                     DATE




 PRINTED NAME AND TITLE OF CONTRACTOR SIGNATORY (above)

 TENNESSEE HOUSING DEVELOPMENT AGENCY




 RALPH M. PERREY, EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR                                                      DATE




section                                                                                                                  7
                                                                                                                          ATTACHMENT A




          ATTESTATION RE PERSONNEL USED IN CONTRACT PERFORMANCE

 SUBJECT CONTRACT NUMBER:



 CONTRACTOR LEGAL ENTITY NAME:



 FEDERAL EMPLOYER IDENTIFICATION NUMBER:
 (or Social Security Number)




 The Contractor, identified above, does hereby attest, certify, warrant, and assure that the
 Contractor shall not knowingly utilize the services of an illegal immigrant in the
 performance of this Contract and shall not knowingly utilize the services of any
 subcontractor who will utilize the services of an illegal immigrant in the performance of
 this Contract.




 CONTRACTOR SIGNATURE
 NOTICE: This attestation MUST be signed by an individual empowered to contractually bind the Contractor. If said individual is not the chief
 executive or president, this document shall attach evidence showing the individual’s authority to contractually bind the Contractor.




 PRINTED NAME AND TITLE OF SIGNATORY



 DATE OF ATTESTATION




section                                                                                                                                         8
