                                   Request for Proposal (RFP)
                Michigan Department of Technology, Management and Budget (DTMB)
                                                for
                    DEPARTMENT OF STATE (DOS) – Fremont, Newaygo County
                                          SR #2019-0298
                                          April 15, 2020

RFP Summary, Submission Requirements and Checklist

SUMMARY
 Agency:                   Department of State (DOS)
 Location:                 t.b.d., Fremont, MI
 Square Footage/Use:       2,600 SF / Secretary of State office
 Floor(s):                 One
 Parking Requirement:      40
 Occupancy Date:           May 1, 2021
 Lease Agreement:          Standard form of state lease agreement is attached to this RFP.
 Note:                     Please review this RFP in its entirety, as substantial changes have occurred.
 Commission:               I/we acknowledge that there is no broker for this transaction and no commission
                           will be paid. The attached proposal and pricing are reflective of this
                           acknowledgement.
 Other:                    Two (2) hard copies of proposals must be received by 5 p.m. E.S.T. on Thursday
                           May 28, 2020

SUBMISSION DOCUMENT CHECKLIST
    Written summary of proposal
    Complete Space Available Proposal (SAP) form
    Proof of ownership of property (recorded deed or fully executed purchase agreement, purchase option, or
     master lease for subject property)
    Proof of legal authority to enter into agreement (see attached “legal documentation and signature
     requirements checklist”)
    Proposed floor plan
    Proposed site plan
    Proposed timeline from executed date of agreement
    Signed bidder’s acknowledgement


SUBMISSION DUE DATE / PROCEDURES
 Two (2) hard copies of each proposal, clearly indicating the appropriate proposal number SR #2019-0298,
 must be received by 5:00 p.m. E.S.T. on May 28, 2020 to: Eric M. Yope, Project Manager, Real Estate
 Division, Michigan Department of Technology, Management, & Budget, 3111 W. St. Joseph Street, Lansing,
 MI 48917.

 Please be advised that proposals MUST be received by the date and time stated herein or they will not
 be accepted. There will be NO exceptions.

 An electronic version of the proposal is also requested and should be submitted to
 dtmb-realestate@michigan.gov within 24 hours of the due date defined herein; please indicate the appropriate
 proposal number SR# 2019-0298 in the subject line.




Form Updated: 02-18-2020                       SR#2019-0298                           Page: 1 of 6
                                   Request for Proposal (RFP)
                Michigan Department of Technology, Management and Budget (DTMB)
                                                for
                    DEPARTMENT OF STATE (DOS) – Fremont, Newaygo County
                                          SR #2019-0298
                                          April 15, 2020

Introduction and Overview
The State of Michigan, by the Department of Technology, Management and Budget (DTMB/State or Lessee), for
the Department of State (DOS) is evaluating their space alternatives in Fremont, Michigan. Please respond to the
Request for Proposal (RFP) if you (Lessor or Bidder) have a potential location in the geographic boundaries set
forth in this RFP. If you have more than one potential location, submit separate proposals for each location.

Please review and read this package thoroughly. Your proposal should be based on the sample documents and
the requirements as detailed in this package.

Please be advised that State tax credits and incentives are administered by the Michigan Economic Development
Corporation (MEDC), who is the appropriate contact for resources and program information. The DTMB will not
accept proposals contingent upon receiving credits, incentives or other project cost inducements.

The State reserves the right to waive any irregularities or defects in any submission; to request clarifications or
additional information regarding proposals; to conduct a Best and Final Offer (BAFO); and to reject any and all
proposals at its sole discretion. The submission of this RFP does not constitute an agreement to lease with the
State. The State shall assume no liability whatsoever for any expense incurred by a Bidder in replying to this
RFP. The State shall also assume no liability for any development risk of a successful bidder. A lease
agreement, if completed, shall be with the proposal deemed to have offered the best value to the State of
Michigan.

Pursuant to 1984 PA 431, as amended, (“The MB Act”), the Department of Technology, Management and Budget
is the only agency authorized to enter into lease agreements on behalf of the State of Michigan. No individual,
employee or agent of the State of Michigan has authority to bind the State without proper authorization. Bidders
are directed to section VI.4 Proposal Submission of this RFP for correct information on the submission of a
proposal. Bidders are hereby notified that communications during the RFP process non-compliant with the
Proposal Submission guidelines may result in disqualification of a proposal.

Any release to the public of information relating in any respect to the contemplated lease agreement or any other
matters set forth (i.e. advertisement, ground breaking, press releases, etc.) must have prior written approval and
be made only in the form approved by the DTMB Real Estate Division Director.

                                             I.   Space Requirements

I.1.    Location: The space shall be located no more than 1 mile outside of the following boundary with
        preference given to sites located within the city limits of Fremont, and near public transportation.
        This includes properties on either side of the street delineating the boundaries. Please identify the
        location of the space by street and mailing address.

I.2.    Space (Premises): The State requires approximately 2,600 usable square feet of office space. The
        State reserves the right to increase or decrease the size of this requirement by up to 10%. Special
        circumstances may require more extensive program size changes.

        Please verify that the Premises square footage is based upon the A.N.S.I. Z65.1 – 1996 method for
        calculating space.




Form Updated: 02-18-2020                          SR#2019-0298                             Page: 2 of 6
I.3.    Parking: The State requires forty (40) common parking spaces. Please describe the parking provided at
        the site, including the total number of spaces available and provide detail as to how you will meet this
        parking requirement.

I.4.    Occupancy/Commencement: The Occupancy/Commencement Date is the latest date on which the
        improvements to the Premises are substantially complete and the Lessor secures a Certificate of
        Occupancy, or the Lessee begins beneficial use of the Premises. The Lessor will deliver the Premises to
        the Lessee no later than May 1, 2021.

                                                  II. Lease Term

II.1.   Initial Lease Term: The Initial Lease Term is for a maximum of ten (10) years.

        Please propose a fixed, or flat, rental rate for a Gross Lease: including all expenses – taxes, insurance,
        janitorial services, maintenance, etc.

        The State may elect to pay for utilities separately so please include a cost per square foot to reduce the
        rental rate if such occurs. The State prefers dedicated utility meters. If submitting a proposal for a space
        with sub-meters, please provide information on how the billing is generated from the submeters.

II.2.   Renewal Option(s): The State requires two (2) five (5) year options to renew with sixty (60) days
        advance written notice to the Lessor to exercise such option based on the terms and conditions defined in
        the Initial Lease. Please outline the rental rate for said option periods.

II.3.   Adjustments/Escalations: There will be no adjustments made to the rental consideration.

II.4.   Allowances and Contributions: Please include all allowances and contributions proposed with respect
        to design costs, construction, moving, and any allowance items (indicate a per square foot moving
        allowance in the space provided on the Space Available Proposal (SAP) form.

II.5.   Concessions: The State is very interested in acquiring market concessions for this transaction. Any
        concessions, especially the timing of such, will be a major factor in assessing proposals received.
        Concessions may include reduced rent, free rent, moving allowances or any other item you are willing to
        incorporate into the proposal. Clearly a combination of these items may be included. The State reserves
        the right to apply the concessions in the manner most beneficial to the Lessee.

II.6.   Cancellation: All State leases for real property are required to contain a cancellation provision as
        established within the framework of the Michigan Constitution. The attached sample lease and SAP
        contain this provision.

II.7.   Security Deposit: The State will not provide a security deposit.

II.8.   Alternative Terms: Bidders are encouraged to respond to the specific requirements listed in this RFP, as
        alternative proposals may or may not be considered. All proposed alterations from the standard form of
        lease agreement attached to this RFP must be clearly identified. The State must receive sufficient
        information to accurately assess all proposals. The State reserves the sole and exclusive right to
        consider alternative proposals, to seek proposal clarification, and to reject any and all proposals.


                                      III. Building Standards and Systems

III.1. Building and Tenant Improvements: If you are submitting proposal(s) for either a build to suit or an
       existing building requiring remodeling work, reference the attached State of Michigan Minimum Design
       Standards for guidelines. The Lessor will be responsible for providing the Premises in a turnkey
       condition.

        If your proposal is a new build requiring site approval, the final approved plan of the Premises must
        comply with your response to this RFP, including parking requirements.

        Please provide a detailed description of the building and other material descriptions; for example, explain
        the HVAC system, the type of access and security system and procedures, and the telecommunications

Form Updated: 02-18-2020                          SR#2019-0298                             Page: 3 of 6
        services available, barrier free design, etc. that will allow the State to understand the quality and
        appearance of the building.

III.2. Construction Taxes, Permits and Fees: The Lessor is responsible for all taxes, permits, fees, etc.,
       required for any construction, infrastructure upgrades, and/or remodeling. The Lessor is responsible for
       all necessary inspections by the architect/engineer during the construction and/or remodeling.

III.3. Network and Telecommunication Services: The State of Michigan requires state of the art
       infrastructure and telecommunication products to support voice, data and video systems.
       Telecommunication items incorporated in this building project shall adhere to ANSI/EIA/TIA and BICSI
       Standards. The detailed specification for telecommunications may override the ANSI/EIA/TIA and BICSI
       standards in some areas due to changes in technology. In addition to the ANSI/EIA/TIA and BICSI
       Standards, all applicable building standards and codes must be incorporated. Lease spaces shall meet or
       exceed current industry Standards relating to building spaces, pathways and equipment which will be
       required from the building owner in order to achieve compliance.

III.4. Environmental Disclosure: The Lessor covenants that he/she has undertaken a due diligence inquiry
       of the Premises. The Premises, and property on which the Premises is located, is free of any toxic,
       hazardous or injurious substances as defined under Federal and State laws and regulations. The
       attached sample lease contains environmental provisions that must be adhered to when entering into a
       lease with the State of Michigan. These provisions, as recited in the lease agreement, will not be altered.
       Proposers are directed to the attached lease agreement to review all environmental requirements.

III.5. Recycling Services: The Lessor shall identify recycling services for the property, if available. Recycling
       services shall include onsite recycling collection, removal to a processing center, a list of “acceptable
       materials”, and access to detailed monthly reporting to include tonnage of each recyclable material,
       rebate/credit amounts received for each material and the cost to process each material. This information
       is not required for Department of State proposals.

                                            IV. Forms and Documents

IV.1.   Enclosed Documents: The enclosed documents (electronic copies only) are provided to assist you in
        establishing your rental rate:
        • Sample Lease
        • State of Michigan Minimum Building Design Standards and Additional Standards, if applicable.
            These standards are to be used in determining the cost of remodeling and/or construction.
        • Floor plans and/or Space Estimator, if applicable
        • Janitorial and Recycling Standards
        • Legal Documentation and Signature Requirements
        • Excerpt from PA 295 of 2008
        • ANSI Standards
        • Bidder’s Acknowledgment

IV.2.   Space Available Proposal Form(s): To be considered, your proposal shall be made on the enclosed
        Space Available Proposal form(s) and all blank spaces on the form(s) shall be filled in. Please note:
        Proposal forms not completely filled in may be rejected.

        Your signature shall be in longhand, and no part of the proposal form shall be altered (except for your
        alternate proposals, if any).

IV.3.   Standard Lease Form: All leases entered into by the State of Michigan are based on the Standard
        Lease form pre-approved by the Attorney General’s office, which is enclosed with this RFP. Any
        requested exceptions or alterations to this Standard Lease form must accompany your proposal.
        However, the Attorney General’s office must approve as to legal form any proposed revisions.
        Exceptions to the Standard Lease form may have an impact on the recommendation. The State of
        Michigan reserves the right to make further modifications to the Lease document to accurately reflect final
        business terms.




Form Updated: 02-18-2020                          SR#2019-0298                              Page: 4 of 6
                                    V. Required Approvals for State Leases

V.1.    Requirements for State Leases: The proposed Lease shall not be binding or effective on either party
        until approved as to legal form by the Department of Attorney General; signed and notarized by the
        Lessor and the Lessee; approved by the State Administrative Board, and signed and notarized by the
        Department of Technology, Management and Budget. If the Lease or any subsequent amendments to it
        fall within the requirements of 1984 PA 431, as amended, MCL 18.1101 et seq. (“The MB Act”), the Lease
        and any subsequent amendments to it shall also require approval of the Joint Capital Outlay
        Subcommittee of the Legislature. The effective date of the proposed Lease is the date the last State
        governmental approval is obtained as set forth on the signature page. At any time prior to the last State
        governmental approval, the State reserves the right to reject the proposal and terminate the Lease
        approval process.

V.2.    Legal Documentation: Pursuant to The MB Act (Public Act 431, as amended) all leases must be
        approved as to legal form by the Attorney General’s office, which includes the submission of
        documentation necessary to evidence legal authority of Bidder to enter into the lease agreement,
        including the signatory’s authority to bind. For your convenience, a guideline indicating necessary legal
        documentation is included with this RFP. Failure to provide appropriate legal documentation may result
        in your proposal being rejected.


                                     VI. Selection Criteria and Submission

VI.1.   Selection Criteria: The selection of the recommended proposal is based on, but is not limited to, the
        following criteria:
        •    A clear and concise proposal, particularly in terms of dates, numbers, dollars, and any other
             information requested in this RFP. Vague and/or general proposals may be rejected.
        •    The ability to comply with Barrier Free Design
        •    The ability to meet any build out specifications and timelines, and special needs of the Lessee
        •    The overall condition of the building, including infrastructure, HVAC, property, etc. (existing space)
        •    The overall cost, which is deemed in the best interest of the State
        •    The type of accessibility (e.g. roads, public transportation, etc.)
        •    The type of utilities available
        •    The type of recycling services available, if applicable - This information is not required for
             Department of State proposals.

VI.2.   Required Documents: Please return the following documents for our review and consideration. Please
        note: Failure to provide the following may result in your proposal being rejected.
        •   Written Summary of Proposal
        •   Completed Space Available Proposal form(s)
        •   Proof of ownership of Property (recorded deed or fully executed purchase agreement, purchase
            option, or master lease for subject property)
        •   Proof of Legal authority to enter into the proposed agreement
        •   Proposed Floor Plan (you must show how the State’s requirements, using State standards, will fit in
            your proposed site)
        •   Proposed Site Plan
        •   Project timeline from date of executed agreement
        •   Signed Bidder’s Acknowledgement

VI.3.   Lease Questions and Answers: Questions concerning clarifications or standards contained in this RFP
        are to be submitted by e-mail only (please indicate the appropriate proposal number in the subject line)
        no later than 5:00 p.m. on April 21, 2020 to dtmb-realestate@michigan.gov

        All questions and answers will be posted to the website at www.michigan.gov/dtmb-realestate no later
        than May 5, 2020. Prospective Bidders should check the website for any updates, questions and
        answers.

        The State will not respond to telephone inquiries or visits by Bidders or their representatives or respond to
        questions after the due date.




Form Updated: 02-18-2020                          SR#2019-0298                             Page: 5 of 6
VI.4.   Proposal Due Date: Two (2) hard copies of each proposal, clearly indicating the appropriate proposal
        number SR #2019-0298, must be received by 5:00 p.m. Eastern Standard Time on May 28, 2020 to:

                                  Eric Yope, Project Manager, DTMB Real Estate Division
                                  Bid Response for SR #2019-0298
                                  3111 W. St. Joseph Street
                                  Lansing, MI 48917

        Please be advised that two (2) hard copies of your proposal MUST be received by the date and
        time stated herein or your proposal will NOT be accepted. There will be NO exceptions.

        An electronic version of the proposal is also requested and should be submitted to
        dtmb-realestate@michigan.gov within 24 hours of the due date defined herein; please indicate the
        appropriate proposal number SR #2019-0298 in the subject line.

        All proposals shall be valid for one-hundred and twenty (120) days from the submission due date, unless
        mutually agreed to in writing by both parties.

VI.5.   Best and Final Offer (BAFO): A BAFO may be requested at the sole and exclusive discretion of the
        DTMB or its agent. A BAFO or other alteration to original proposals submitted after the Proposal Due
        Date will not be accepted unless requested in writing by the DTMB or its agent.

        A BAFO may be requested from one or more proposers during the review and evaluation process. If the
        evaluation process does not lead to a viable recommendation and there are alterations to the original
        RFP requirements, the requirements will be presented to all Bidders with a due date for submission.

        Bidders will not be provided any information about other proposals, or where a Bidder stands in relation to
        others, at any time during the evaluation process.

VI.6.   State Acceptance and Authority: After all proposals have been analyzed and the recommendation is
        made to and accepted by the Department, DTMB will notify all Bidders accordingly. Any proposals not
        meeting the minimum requirements of the enclosed sample lease and instructions may be rejected.

        It is the State’s practice to select the lowest most responsive bid in consideration of all factors set forth in
        this RFP. The lowest bid does not necessarily mean it will be selected.

        The MB Act (1984 Public Act 431, as amended) specifies that the DTMB is the only Department
        authorized to enter into lease agreements, subject to obtaining all necessary approvals. No individual,
        employee or agent of the State of Michigan has authority to bind the State without proper authorization.

        In accordance with the above, oral and written promises or representations made regarding a lease
        agreement, existing or proposed, or transmittal of written documents that have not been approved by the
        State Administrative Board, shall not be binding on the State. You must receive a fully executed
        document, signed by an authorized representative of the DTMB, for an agreement to be valid.


           Thank you for your interest in doing business with the State of Michigan.




Form Updated: 02-18-2020                           SR#2019-0298                              Page: 6 of 6
                             Request for Proposal (RFP)
          Michigan Department of Technology, Management and Budget (DTMB)
                                          for
              DEPARTMENT OF STATE (DOS) – Fremont, Newaygo County
                                    SR #2019-0298
                                    April 15, 2020


                                 Bidder’s Acknowledgement

      This Acknowledgment must be signed, dated, and returned with your Proposal

Please review and read this RFP thoroughly. Your proposal should be based on the sample
documents and requirements as presented in this RFP. The Bidder acknowledges and certifies
that they are authorized to submit the proposal; that they have read and fully understand all
terms and conditions of this RFP; that the proposal complies with the requirements of this RFP;
and that they shall be responsible for any errors or omissions in the proposal.



_______________________________________                   _________________________
Signature of Authorized Bidder/Representative             Date


_______________________________________
Printed Name




Rev 4-21-10
      2019-0298
SR #__________                                          SPACE AVAILABLE PROPOSAL                                                                  12065
                                                                                                                                        Lease #__________
                   State of Michigan—Department of Technology, Management & Budget - Real Estate Division
This form is a proposal only to serve notification that the property noted below, with the building construction/remodeling, as per prints and specifications, is avail-
able for lease to the State of Michigan (STATE). NOTE: The State reserves the right to accept any proposal, to reject any or all proposals, and/or to waive any
defects in proposal. Establishment of a lease agreement, if made, shall be with the Proposer whose proposal is in the best interest of the State of Michigan.
                                                            PROPOSER INFORMATION
NAME OF PROPOSER (LESSOR):                                                             CURRENT LEGAL ENTITY:
                                                                                       (i.e., TRUST, LLC, CORP, PARTNERSHIP)

                                                                                           CONTACT PERSON:
ADDRESS OF PROPOSER:
                                                                                      TELEPHONE NUMBER:
                                                                                             EMAIL ADDRESS:
                                                                           PROPOSAL
PROPERTY INFORMATION
BUILDING ADDRESS AND/OR PARCEL DESCRIPTION:                                              TOTAL BUILDING             *SQUARE FOOT OF
                                                                                            SQ. FT.:                LEASED PREMISES:            % LEASED TO STATE:

                                                                                                                                                         0.00%
                                                                                            TOTAL NUMBER OF ON-SITE PARKING SPACES:
PROPOSER HAS TITLE OR LEGAL AUTHORITY                           Yes         No
                                                                                             NUMBER OF HANDICAPPED PARKING SPACES:
WHAT IS THE CURRENT ZONING?
                                                                                       NUMBER OF ON-SITE PARKING SPACES FOR STATE:
INITIAL LEASE TERM: ten (10) yrs. CANCELLATION TYPE: Executive                                                       with                120 -days notice
ANNUAL RATE                     0.00                                       MONTHLY RENT                  0.00                               SQ. FT. RATE

RENEWAL OPTION: five (5)                 yrs.   CANCELLATION TYPE: Standard                                          with                  60 -days notice
ANNUAL RATE                     0.00                                       MONTHLY RENT                  0.00                               SQ. FT. RATE

RENEWAL OPTION: five (5)                 yrs.   CANCELLATION TYPE: Standard                                          with                   60 -days notice
ANNUAL RATE                     0.00                                       MONTHLY RENT                  0.00                               SQ. FT. RATE

 TOTAL DEVELOPMENT COST OR REMODELING COST: $ 0.00                                    LUMP SUM COST TO BE ADDED TO FIRST MONTH RENT: $ 0.00

RECYCLING AVAILABLE?                                           IS COST OF RECYCLING INCLUDED IN RATES?
   None         Plastic     Glass       Metal        Paper                    Yes             No                  RECYCLING COST PER SQUARE FOOT            _______
                                                                                                                                                              $ 0.00
Indicate any of the following:                   Free Rent for ________
                                                               N/A      Months                                                                    0
                                                                                                             Tenant Improvement Allowance of $________
SERVICES TO BE PROVIDED BY LESSOR AND/OR STATE:                                       Telecom / Data                                                      State
Heat and Air Conditioning Utilities                                Lessor             Alarm System Equipment                                              State
Electricity                                                        Lessor             Grounds Maintenance                                                 Lessor
Water and Sewer                                                    Lessor             Snow Removal                                                        Lessor
Janitorial Services and Supplies (including Restroom)              Lessor             Dumpster Services                                                   Lessor
Water Well and/or Septic System Maintenance                        Lessor             Maintenance of Portable Fire Extinguishers                          Lessor
Maintenance of Sidewalks, Curbs and Parking Lot                    Lessor             Replacement of Tubes, Bulbs, LEDs                                   Lessor
Pest Control                                                       Lessor             Building Maintenance (including Physical Plant)                     Lessor
       Failure to return this form will exclude you from consideration for this project. However, your name will remain on the notification list for future projects.
By signing this proposal, I/we certify that I/we have confirmed financing arrangements to construct and/or remodel and lease this building for possession by the
Michigan Department of __________________.
                           State (DOS)
PROPOSAL TO BE RECEIVED IN THIS OFFICE ON OR BEFORE: May 28, 2020
This form must be completely filled in, signed, and returned to:      SIGNATURE(S):                                                           DATE:
              DTMB-Real Estate Division
              ATTN:____________________
                     Eric Yope
              3111 W. St. Joseph Street                                           NOT VALID UNLESS SIGNED & DATED
              Lansing, MI 48917                                       PROPOSAL INCLUDES ATTACHMENTS:          YES                               NO
                                                                                                                                                      Revised: 9/11/2018
                                               DEFINITIONS

Lump Sum Cost - Predetermined dollar amount based on a percentage of the total development cost;
payment of which shall be made to the Lessor upon submission of proper invoices concurrently with the
first month's rent consideration for satisfactory completion of the remodeling or construction work.

Possession - Lawful availability and physical access to install the State's furnishings and compliance with
submitting a certificate of occupancy and completion of remodeling standards and specifications.

Renewal Option - A lease covenant giving the State the right to extend a lease for an additional period on
specified terms.

Square Footage (Leased Premises) - The amount of square footage using inside dimensions that can be
used by the State for which rent is charged (based upon the A.N.S.I. Z65.1 - 1996 method for calculating
space).

Total Development Cost And Remodeling Cost - The total cost of the project, including the construction of
the building and purchase of the land.

                                             INSTRUCTIONS

Proposer Information – Provide the name, address, and type of legal entity of the Proposer. Entity
papers, if applicable, are needed if your proposal is selected. Provide contact information for the person
responsible for submitting and answering any questions related to this proposal on the Proposer’s behalf.

Property Information – Provide the complete address and legal description (if available) of the premises
offered for lease. Complete all property information fields.

Initial Term and Renewal Options – Provide the proposed monthly rent for the initial term and any
renewal options. The monthly rent, annual rent, and square foot rates will automatically calculate if the
property information has been provided.

Total Development Cost or Remodeling Cost - Provide an estimate for any development or remodeling
costs. Additional documentation may be requested. If any up-front costs are requested it must be noted,
and may be included in the first monthly rental payment.

Total Number of on-site parking spaces – Provide the TOTAL number of parking spaces on-site.

Total Number of Handicapped parking spaces - Provide the current number of handicapped parking
spaces available.

Number of on-site parking spaces for State - Provide the total number of parking spaces to be included in
the lease terms guaranteed for State.

Services to be provided by Lessor / State – Select the proposed responsible party from the drop down
menu for each service listed.

A hard copy of the proposal must be received by our office by the due date listed; late proposals are not
accepted.

                                             CALCULATIONS

Square Foot of Leased Premises / Total Building Sq. Ft. = % Leased to State

Monthly Rent x 12 = Annual Rent

Annual Rent / Sq. Ft. of Lease Premises = Sq. Ft. Rate
