                                                                       April 3, 2020
                                   REQUEST FOR PROPOSAL TO
                                           PROVIDE
                                  RECREATION MANAGEMENT
                                       SOFTWARE TO THE
                                 CITY OF ANDERSON, CALIFORNIA

        In accordance with the provisions of the Municipal Code of the City of Anderson, sealed
proposals must be submitted to the City Clerk's 3rd floor office of the City of Anderson, located at
City Hall, 1887 Howard Street, Anderson, California 96007 prior to 3:00 P.M., Friday, May 15,
2020, for furnishing the City of Anderson a proposal for recreation management software to the
City of Anderson, per specifications and general conditions.

      PROPOSALS RECEIVED AFTER THIS TIME AND DATE WILL NOT BE ACCEPTED OR
CONSIDERED.

       The said proposals will be opened at 3:00 P.M., on Friday, June 5, 2020 in the designated City
Hall Conference Room as posted in the main lobby of City Hall, 1887 Howard Street, Anderson, CA. 96007

       The bidder shall provide the original (unbound) and five (5) copies of the proposal. Fax or
electronic submission of proposals will not be allowed. Request for Proposal package may be obtained
from the Purchasing Division by calling 530-378-6626 or www.ci.anderson.ca.us The City will award
any resulting contract in a manner consistent with the City Purchasing Ordinance.

       The cut‐off date and time for receiving questions regarding this bid is 5:00 p.m. PST,
on Friday, April 24, 2020. All inquiries must be made in writing and may be submitted to the
email address shown below.




                                                                                           Page 1 of 12
        If a potential bidder/proposer received this solicitation document through some
means other than surface mail from the City of Anderson (such as from the City of Anderson
Internet web site, or from another prospective bidder/proposer), it is the responsibility of
the potential bidder/proposer to advise the assigned City of Anderson Purchasing contact
of its intention to submit a bid/proposal so that any addenda or other correspondence
related to this solicitation will be sent to the potential bidder/proposer. When contacting
the Purchasing Division, the bidder/proposer shall provide the solicitation number located
on the cover page of this document. Transmittal of this information must be in writing, by
U.S. Mail, fax, or e-mail. Transmittal of this information via telephone is not acceptable.

Please submit bid/proposal as directed in the RFP package. Forward to:

                                           City of Anderson
                                               City Clerk
                                          1887 Howard Street
                                          Anderson, CA 96007

Proposals must be received by the City Clerk's office prior to 3:00 p.m. PST on the date indicated
below. Mailing envelope is to be clearly marked on the outside with the following notation:

                 "Proposal for Recreation Management Software” (RMS);
                 opening at 3:00 P.M., on Friday, May 15, 2020"

Note: Signatures must be legible, indicating full first and last name.


                                                                         City of Anderson
                                                                         Purchasing Division




                                                                                           Page 2 of 12
                          Recreation Management Software

                               TABLE OF CONTENTS

  SECTION Page


1.0 INTRODUCTION                                           4

2.0 TENTATIVE PROJECT SCHEDULE                             5

3.0 SCOPE OF WORK                                          5

4.0 ASSURANCE OF DESIGNATED PROJECT TEAM                   6

5.0 PROPOSAL FORMAT REQUIREMENTS                           6

6.0 SUBMITTAL INSTRUCTIONS                                 10

7.0 EVALUATION CRITERIA                                    11

8.0 SELECTION PROCESS                                      11




                                                                Page 3 of 12
1.0    INTRODUCTION

        The City of Anderson (hereinafter “City”), is soliciting proposals for Recreation Management
        Software. This will be a competitive negotiation process. Qualified individuals, firms,
        contractors, vendors or entities (hereinafter “Vendor(s)”), that meet the requirements set forth
        in this Request for Proposals (hereinafter “RFP”), and are capable of providing the services
        requested are encouraged to participate.

            1.1 BACKGROUND

        The City of Anderson Community Services Department, Recreation Division (subsequently
        referred to as RECREATION) has identified a need to replace their existing means for tracking
        rental facilities and recreation classes. Recreation has used an excel spreadsheet to manage its
        recreation classes, registrations, memberships, facility reservations. ($80,000.00)

            1.2 INSTRUCTIONS

        This RFP includes a description of the scope of services, proposal requirements, and
        instructions for submitting your proposal. Failure to follow these instructions may result in
        rejection of your proposal.

        No oral representations or interpretations will be made to any proposer as to the meaning of
        this RFP.

      Questions or comments regarding this RFP must be submitted in writing to both contacts shown below:

        Christy White, Project Coordinator     cwhite@ci.anderson.ca.us

        Liz Cottrell, Assistant City Manager    lcottrell@ci.anderson.ca.us

       Inquiries should refer to specific RFP sections and paragraphs. The cutoff time for receiving
       written questions is 5:00 P.M., PST, Friday, April 24, 2020. Written responses to an inquiry
       will be distributed to all known participants by way of formal addendum at the sole discretion
       of the City. It is the responsibility of the proposer to ensure they are in receipt of any and all
       addenda. In the event that it becomes necessary to revise any part of this RFP, written addenda
       will be issued. Any amendment to this RFP is valid only if it is in writing and issued by the City
       department issuing the RFP. No oral interpretations or answers shall bind the City unless
       confirmed by the City in writing. Addenda will also be posted to www.ci.anderson.ca.us

        Proposals received incomplete or late for any reason shall not be reviewed. The City has the
        right to waive minor irregularities in any proposal received.



                                                                                                  Page 4 of 12
      Do not contact other individuals or City departments in this regard. Information provided by
      anyone other than the above contact may be invalid and proposals which are submitted in
      accordance with such information may be declared non-responsive.

2.0   TENTATIVE SCHEDULE

      The following represents the tentative schedule for this RFP. Any changes to deadline for Final
      Questions, or Proposal Submission Deadline will be advertised in the form of an addendum to
      this RFP. The schedule for the evaluation process and other future dates may be adjusted
      without notice.


                         Date                         Description
                        4/3/2020 Begin Circulation of RFP

                       4/24/2020 Deadline to Submit Written Questions

                       5/15/2020 RFP Responses Must be Recevied by City Clerk

                        6/5/2020 Vendor Responses will be Score by Evaluation Team

                       6/30/2020 Award to Successful Vendor



3.0   SCOPE OF WORK

      The purpose of this proposal is to obtain a comprehensive Recreation Management Software
      System specific to Parks and Recreation that can meet the current requirements of the City of
      Anderson Parks and Recreation Department, and is capable of expansion to meet future needs.
      RECREATION is most interested in a fully hosted (web) solution with minimal local client (PC)
      software install which provides staff and customers the greatest flexibility in accessing the
      software. However, RECREATION will consider on-premises software solutions, especially if
      the product meets the functionality needs and has a more cost effective and/or secure method
      for facilitating payment processing.

      The ideal software solution will enable RECREATION to provide excellent customer service,
      both in person and online, for its main business activities. Additionally, the solution should
      enhance internal operations and provide for easy management, allow for future growth and
      deploy easily to functional areas of Parks and Recreation. RECREATION is committed to
      taking significant steps to automate as many processes as possible and is interested in
      functionality that will automate the basic, common services associated with the modules
      below:

                Online Activity Registration and Account Management
                Online Facility Reservations
                Onsite Activity Registrations
                                                                                             Page 5 of 12
             Onsite Facility Reservations
             Reporting
             Marketing/Communication
             Point of Sale
             Payment Processing
             Instructor Management
             Scholarship Program
             Smart Phone/Social Media Integration

      The vendor selected will be responsible for the implementation of all selected components,
      project management, training, data migration solutions, and full installation that will meet the
      performance requirements as agreed to in the final contract. Recreation anticipates completing
      a contract for this new software in May 2020, and anticipates full system implementation by, or
      before, July 2020.

      In the interest of finding a turnkey solution, RECREATION will consider revising requirements
      before resorting to custom software development to achieve a desired function. If the Vendor’s
      system performs the desired task in a way that is different than how it is described in this RFP,
      the Vendor is encouraged to explain how their system can accomplish the desired task.

4.0   ASSURANCE OF DESIGNATED PROJECT TEAM

      Proposer shall assure that the designated project team, including sub-consultants or sub-
      contractors (if any), is used for this project. Departure or reassignment of, or substitution for,
      any member of the designated project team, sub-consultant(s) or sub-contractor(s) shall not
      be made without the prior written approval of the City.

5.0   PROPOSAL FORMAT REQUIREMENTS

      Each response to this RFP shall include the information described in this section. Provide the
      information in the specified order. Failure to include all of the information specified may be
      cause for rejection. Additional information may be provided, but should be succinct and
      relevant to the goals of this RFP. Any additional information that a proposing Vendor wishes
      to include that is not specifically requested should be included in an appendix to the proposal.

      Vendors are encouraged to keep the proposals brief and to the point, but sufficiently detailed
      to allow evaluation of the project approach. Excessive information will not be considered
      favorably.
      Unauthorized conditions, omissions, limitations or provisions attached to a proposal will
      render the proposal non-responsive and may cause its rejection.

      Proposers are warned against making erasures or alterations of any kind, without initialing
      each and every such change. Proposals that contain erasures or irregularities of any kind,
      without such initialing, or omissions, may be rejected.




                                                                                              Page 6 of 12
        The proposal should be unbound or contained in a loose leaf binder. Document pages shall
        be 8-1/2 inches by 11 inches in size or folded to such a size. Use section dividers, tabbed in
        accordance with this section as specified below.

5.1    Cover Letter with the following information:
        •   Title of this RFP
        •   Name and Mailing Address of Firm (include physical location if mailing address is a PO
            Box)
        •   Contact Person, Telephone Number, Fax Number, and Email Address
        •   Cover letter is to be signed, in ink, by a member of the organization having the
            authority to negotiate and sign contracts on behalf of the firm.
        •   Cover letter shall acknowledge receipt of addenda, if any were issued (if in doubt,
            contact Purchasing, (530) 378-6626.
        •   A statement as to the date the Contractor is prepared to begin services and the location
            of the office or offices that would provide the project services (after estimated date of
            award).

5.2   TAB A: Executive Summary – Describe your firm and provide a statement of qualifications for
      providing this specific software. Describe the software and how or why the solution would be
      beneficial to the City. Identify the services which would be completed by your firm's staff and
      those that would be provided by sub-consultants or sub-contractors, if any. Identify any sub-
      consultants or sub-contractors you propose to utilize to supplement your firm’s staff. Resumes
      may be included in the appendix.

5.3   TAB B: Experience and References – Provide a summary of your firm’s experience in
      providing this specific software. How long has the product been in use? Was the product
      developed internally? How many organizations utilize the software? Provide a minimum of three
      (3) customers who have acquired and implemented the most current version of the software.
      Include brief descriptions of the projects, dates, client names and contact persons’ names,
      addresses and telephone numbers. Public sector references and customers of similar size are
      preferred.

5.4   TAB C: Project Plan and Description of the Proposed System/Application – Please
      provide information about your firm’s standard methodology for delivering the solution.
      Also, include a proposed work schedule that includes the key tasks to be delivered including
      duration.

      Identify the staff members who will be assigned to the solution delivery, and their project
      roles. List any necessary technology, training, travel or installation services that will also be
      required.

      Please describe and illustrate the products and systems which comprise the proposed
      Recreation Management Software, including whether system is a vendor-hosted or a City-
      hosted solution.
      Descriptions to include:
                                                                                                Page 7 of 12
             The name of the solution, the names of the key modules and the purpose of each module
             How the system will benefit RECREATION in areas of efficiency and automation.
             How the Vendor will assist RECREATION in its transition from the current application.
             How Vendor will offer on-going-support and maintenance and ensure RECREATION
              staff acceptance of new technology through effective, hands-on training.
             What 3rd -party business partners the vendor uses to support their solution?
             What security measures are in place to protect the solution, the data and the users?

5.5   TAB D: System Features and Functionality – Section 3 (Scope of Work) and Attachments A
      (Functionality Requirements) and B (Optional Functionality Requirements) list modules,
      features and functionality to help assess the efficiency of the proposed system. Vendors are not
      required to provide a system that includes all features and options to be selected to participate in
      the next phase of the proposal process. Responding Vendors should indicate the following and/or
      provide comments where needed for each item on the matrix in Attachments A and B.


5.6   The matrix is provided electronically for ease of completion as a supplemental document on the
      City of Anderson website, www.ci.anderson.ca.us\finance\purchasing.
               I, included in base system: System meets this specification out of the box.
               AC, available with Configuration or Customization at additional cost: System
                would meet this specification with configuration. State costs, if any, in the sealed fee
                schedule.
               FR, planned in future release: System would meet this specification in a future
                software update/release. State quarter and year of release date.
               NA: System does not meet this specification. Vendor may explain or provide
                alternate functionality, if desired.
               Comments: Specify configuration or customization or other notes as needed.

5.7   TAB E: Vendor and Technology Requirements – Please provide any technical requirements
      that must be met by the city to implement the solution. This includes network (speed, ports,
      and settings), client (OS, RAM, and Processor), server (OS, RAM, Processor and storage),
      database (name, version, and storage), and software (browsers, .NET version, and 3rd party
      applications). Identify any areas in which the proposed solution does not meet the City’s
      minimum technical requirements explained in Attachment A. Additionally, provide
      information about any necessary hardware and peripherals required for the recreation
      software to operate effectively. Include pricing for additional hardware and peripherals as part
      of the Cost Proposal.

5.8   TAB F: Training & Support – Provide detailed and thorough responses to the following
      questions:
          Support:

                 1. What are your customer support hours? What types of support are available?
                 2. What is the average response time for support? Explain different response times
                    as they apply to different levels of support (e.g. help running a report or system
                    crash).
                                                                                                Page 8 of 12
         Training:
                1. What training is provided or required as part of implementation? Please
                    provide descriptions and details of training provided by your firm.
                2. What training and resources are provided or offered after go live to support
                    functionality changes, software updates and/or to assist with training new
                    staff?
5.9    TAB G: Report Samples, Brochures and other Literature/Information – Include
       samples of reports such as a payment receipt, detailed transaction report, facility
       calendars and class rosters, brochures, other literature or other information may be
       included as optional.
5.10   TAB H: Exceptions – Describe any and all proposed exceptions, alterations or amendments to
       the Scope of Services, General Terms and Conditions or other requirements of this RFP,
       including the Sample Agreement, Consulting and Professional Services Contract (Attachment
       D). The nature and scope of your proposed exceptions may negatively affect the evaluation of
       your submittal and the City’s determination of whether it is possible to successfully negotiate
       a contract with your firm.

5.11   TAB I: Competency of Proposers – The City wants to ensure that the successful Vendors
       has the necessary facilities, ability, experience, and financial resources to provide the
       services specified herein in a satisfactory and timely manner. Please list and explain any
       pending bankruptcies, liens, stop payment notices, judgments, lawsuits, foreclosures, and
       any similar actions filed or resolved in the past seven (7) years. Please indicate whether a
       client has ever terminated a contract with your firm for breach, and if so, please explain.

5.12   Cost Proposal –


       Provide a total cost proposal for all products and services to be delivered. Fixed fee is
       preferred. Provide details of a milestone/deliverable based fee schedule. If any portion of the
       project (such as implementation, data conversion or training) is proposed at an hourly rate
       and not included in the fixed fee, include a schedule of hourly rates for all proposed staff and
       the amount of time each person will be devoted to this project.

       Define any reimbursable expenses requested to be paid by the City. If you provided both
       hosted and non-hosted service models, please provide quotes for each model. Please provide
       costs and pricing for annual maintenance or per transaction fees for the next five (5) years.

       Indicate if any ongoing or annual costs for software licensing, support or maintenance are
       required or recommended. If licensing is required, please indicate if it is based on site, name,
       concurrent or machine?

       Outline any hardware or peripheral requirements for your system and include itemized
       pricing if you provide this equipment.

       Does the proposed system require use of specific payment processing or can it be configured?
       For instance, are credit cards processed through a specific vendor? How often and via what


                                                                                              Page 9 of 12
      method are receipts remitted to the City? If any costs are associated with payment processing,
      include the associated fee schedule.

6.0   SUBMITTAL INSTRUCTIONS

6.1   Your submittal package shall include the following:

            6.1.1 Each proposal package shall contain the original (unbound) and five (5)
                  copies of the proposal. Facsimile or electronic submittals are not acceptable.
                  Pages in the proposal shall be typed and double sided, with the maximum
                  number of printed pages of proposal information (excepting covers, index
                  sheets/dividers, blank pages, and table of contents) to be limited to fifty (50)
                  8 ½” by 11” pages. One sheet of paper that has typed material on both sides
                  counts as two pages.

            6.1.2 One (1) electronic copy of your proposal in PDF format on CD, flash drive or
                  other electronic media

            6.1.3 Proposal will be marked with the Vendor’s name and, “RMS, opening at
                  3:00 PM on Friday, May 15, 2020.”

6.2   Proposals shall be submitted not later than the time and date indicated on the cover page of this
      RFP. All submittals shall be submitted in a sealed envelope or container and clearly marked with
      the RFP title on the outside of the parcel. Complete and attach the “Sealed Proposal” label to
      the outside of the envelope containing your proposal.

6.3   Proposals shall be submitted ONLY to:
               City of Anderson
               Attn: City Clerk
              1887 Howard Street
              Anderson, CA 96007

                Faxed and/or emailed proposals will not be accepted.

                The City shall not be responsible for proposals delivered to a person or location
                other than that specified herein.

                Postmarks will not be accepted and proposals received after the deadline date and time
                will not be accepted or considered. No exceptions.

                The City reserves the right to waive minor defects and/or irregularities in proposals,
                and shall be the sole judge of the materiality of any such defect or irregularity.

                All costs associated with proposal preparation shall be borne by the proposer.



                                                                                              Page 10 of 12
  7.0    EVALUATION CRITERIA

          The following evaluation criteria and rating schedule will be used to determine the most highly
          qualified firm(s).



         Evaluation Criteria

         A. Company Profile - Experience and qualifications of firm, age of product and 5%
             references
         B. Proposed software solution’s ability to meet the needs of the Department 60%

         C. Implementation and Training                                                     10%

         D. Support and Maintenance                                                         25%




8.0     SELECTION PROCESS


        8.1   Proposals submitted will be reviewed by a selection committee. Vendors that have
              submitted the best and most complete proposals that meet the needs of the City may be
              invited to an interview. The number of Vendors invited to an interview may vary
              depending upon the number of proposals submitted.
        8.2   The City reserves the right to make a selection after review of the proposals without oral
              interviews; therefore, the proposal should be submitted initially on the most favorable terms
              that the Vendor might propose.
        8.3   A contract will be negotiated with the Vendor considered best meeting the City’s need for this
              project. In the event a mutually satisfactory contract cannot be negotiated with the City’s first
              choice, negotiations may be terminated and commenced with the Vendor considered next best
              in meeting the City’s needs for this particular project.
        8.4   The selected Vendor will be required to execute a City prepared contract. The contract may
              further refine the scope of services and will provide for the terms and conditions of
              employment.
        8.5   The award of any contract is expressly contingent upon City Council approval and the
              availability of funds. City staff may not legally bind the City to a contract.
        8.6   The City reserves the right to reject any or all proposals, or to waive minor irregularities in
              said proposals, or to negotiate minor deviations with the successful Vendor(s). In the case
              of differences between written words and figures in a proposal, the amount stated in
              written words shall govern. In the case of a difference in unit price versus the extended
              figure, the unit price shall govern.


                                                                                                    Page 11 of 12
8.7   A City of Anderson business license as well as all applicable permits, insurance, licenses
      and certifications required by local, state or federal law are required before the award of
      contract.




Attachments:
  A. Required Functionality Workbook (Excel version available)
  B. Optional Functionality Workbook (Excel version available)
  C. RFP General Conditions
  D. Consulting and Professional Services Agreement
         a. See section 5, of attachment D, for insurance information




                                                                                        Page 12 of 12
        CITY OF ANDERSON ‐ PROFESSIONAL SERVICES AGREEMENT WITH
                                            for
             Recreation Management Software for the City of Anderson
       THIS AGREEMENT (“Agreement”), made and entered into this
       2020, is by and between the City of Anderson, a California municipal
corporation, hereinafter referred to as “City,” and, hereinafter referred to as
“Consultant.”
                                          WITNESSETH:
SECTION 1 ‐ ORGANIZATION AND CONTENTS.
This Agreement is divided into the following Sections:
Section/Title                                                          Page No.
SECTION 1 - ORGANIZATION AND CONTENTS                                    1
SECTION 2 - DESCRIPTION OF PROJECT                                       2
SECTION 3 - SCOPE OF SERVICES - BASIC; COMPLETION SCHEDULE               2
SECTION 4 - SCOPE OF SERVICES - ADDITIONAL; COMPLETION SCHEDULE          2
SECTION 5 - COMPENSATION                                                 2
SECTION 6 - RESPONSIBILITY OF CONSULTANT                                 3
SECTION 7 - RESPONSIBILITY OF CITY                                       3
SECTION 8 - INDEMNIFICATION                                              4
SECTION 9 - INSURANCE                                                    4
SECTION 10 - GENERAL PROVISIONS                                          4
             10.1 - Access to Records                                    4
             10.2 - Assignment                                           5
             10.3 - Changes to Scope of Work - Basic Services            5
             10.4 - Compliance with Laws, Rule, Regulations              5
             10.5 - Conflict of Interest Applicability                   5
             10.6 - Exhibits Incorporated                                5
             10.7 - Independent Contractor                               5
             10.8 - Integration; Amendment                               6
             10.9 - Jurisdiction                                         6
             10.10 - Notice to Proceed; Progress; Completion             6
             10.11 - Ownership of Documents                              6
             10.12 – Subcontracts                                        6
             10.13 - Term; Termination                                   7
             10.14 - Notice                                              7
SECTION 11 - SPECIAL PROVISIONS                                          7
SECTION 2 ‐ DESCRIPTION OF PROJECT


Professional Services Agreement: City of Anderson
Recreation Management Software
        City desires to undertake engineering services, hereinafter referred to as
“project,” described in EXHIBIT “A” entitled “RECREATION MANAGEMENT
SOFTWARE” and to engage Consultant to provide the required professional services
relating to it.


SECTION 3 ‐ SCOPE OF SERVICES – RECREATION MANAGEMENT FOR THE CITY OF
ANDERSON
        Consultant shall perform those basic services in connection with the project as
are set forth more particularly in EXHIBIT “A” entitled “SCOPE OF CONSULTANT
SERVICES – RECREATION MANAGEMENT FOR THE CITY OF ANDERSON” and shall
complete said services in accordance with the completion schedule for them
incorporated in said Exhibit.


SECTION 4 ‐ SCOPE OF SERVICES – ADDITIONAL SERVICES
        It is understood by City and Consultant that it may be necessary, in connection
with the project, for Consultant to perform or secure the performance of services other
than those set forth in EXHIBIT “A.” In each such instance, Consultant shall advise
City, in advance and in writing, of the need for such additional services, their cost and
the estimated time required to perform them (if appropriate). Consultant shall not
proceed to perform any such required additional service until City has determined that
such service is beyond the scope of the basic services to be provided, is required, and
City has given its written authorization to perform or obtain it. Each additional service
so authorized shall constitute an amendment to this Agreement, shall be identified and
sequentially numbered as “Additional Consultant Service No. 1” and so forth, shall be
subject to all of the provisions of this Agreement, and shall be attached to EXHIBIT “A”
entitled “SCOPE OF CONSULTANT SERVICES – ADDITIONAL SERVICES




Professional Services Agreement: City of Anderson
Recreation Management Software
SECTION 5 ‐ COMPENSATION; PAYMENT OF FEES
       Consultant shall be compensated for services rendered to City pursuant to this
Agreement in the amounts, manner and in accordance with the payment schedule as
set forth in EXHIBIT “B” entitled “COMPENSATION; PAYMENT OF FEES”, but not to
exceed,                        .   Amounts due to Consultant from City for services
rendered shall be evidenced by the submission to City by Consultant of an invoice,
prepared in a form satisfactory to City, setting forth the amount of compensation due
for the period covered by it. Each such invoice shall be forwarded to City so as to reach
it on the 1st day of the month, or other applicable period, for which the services
invoiced were provided. All such invoices shall be in full accord with any and all
applicable provisions of this Agreement. City will review each such invoice and retain
them, provided however that if Consultant submits an invoice which is incorrect,
incomplete, or not in accord with the provisions of this Agreement, then City shall not
be obligated to process any payment to Consultant until a correct and complying
invoice has been submitted.


SECTION 6 ‐ RESPONSIBILITY OF CONSULTANT
       By executing this Agreement, Consultant warrants to City that Consultant
possesses, or will arrange to secure from others, all of the necessary professional
capabilities, experience, resources and facilities necessary to provide to City the
services contemplated under this Agreement.         Consultant further warrants that
Consultant will follow the best current, generally accepted professional practices to
make findings, render opinions, prepare factual presentations, and provide
professional advice and recommendations regarding the project for which services are
rendered under this Agreement. It is expressly understood by all parties to this
Agreement that Consultant makes no guarantee or warranty whatsoever to the
success of this project.




Professional Services Agreement: City of Anderson
Recreation Management Software
SECTION 7 ‐ RESPONSIBILITY OF CITY
          To the extent appropriate to the project contemplated by this Agreement, City
shall:
7.1      Assist Consultant by placing at Consultant’s disposal all available information
pertinent to the project, including previous reports and any other data relative to
design and construction which may be applicable to it.
7.2       Guarantee access to and make all provisions for Consultant to enter upon
public and private property as required for Consultant to perform Consultant services.
7.3       Examine all studies, reports, sketches, drawings, specifications, proposals and
other documents prepared and presented by Consultant, and render verbally or in
writing as may be appropriate, decisions pertaining thereto, within a reasonable time
so as not to delay the progress of the work by Consultant.
7.4       Designate in writing a person to act as City's representative with respect to the
work to be performed under this Agreement. Such person shall have complete
authority to transmit instructions, receive information, interpret and define City's
policies and decisions with respect to materials, equipment, elements and systems
pertinent to Consultant's services.
7.5       Give prompt written notice to Consultant whenever City observes or otherwise
becomes aware of any defect in the project.
7.6       Furnish approvals and permits from all governmental authorities having
jurisdiction over the project and such approvals and consents from others as may be
necessary for completion of the project.


SECTION 8 ‐ INDEMNIFICATION
          Consultant shall hold City, its officers, boards and commissions, and members
thereof, its employees and agents harmless of and free from any and all liability arising
out of or relating to any negligent act or omission of Consultant or Consultant’s
employees or agents in rendering the services required by this Agreement.

Professional Services Agreement: City of Anderson
Recreation Management Software
SECTION 9 ‐ INSURANCE
            a.   Unless modified in writing by City's Risk Manager, consultant shall
                 maintain the following noted insurance during the duration of the
                 Contract:

Coverage                                            Required    Not Required
Comercial General Liability                               X

Comprehensive Vehicle Liability                            X

Worker's Compensation and Employers' Liability             X

Professional Liability Erros and Omissions.                             X

            b.   Coverage shall be at least as broad as:

                 1.     Insurance Services Office form number CG-0001,
                        Commercial General Liability Insurance in an amount not
                        less than $1,000,000 per occurrence and $2,000,000
                        general aggregate for bodily injury, personal injury, and
                        property damage;

                 2.      Insurance Services Office form number CA-0001 (Ed. 1/87),
                         Comprehensive Automobile Liability Insurance which
                         provides for total limits of not less than $1,000,000
                         combined single limits per accident applicable to all owned,
                         non-owned, and hired vehicles;

                 3.      Statutory Workers' Compensation required by the Labor
                         Code of the State of California and Employers' Liability
                         Insurance in an amount not less than $1,000,000 per
                         occurrence;

       c.        The General Liability and Automobile Liability policies are to
                 contain or be endorsed to contain the following provisions:

                  i.     City, its elected officials, officers, employees, agents, and
                           volunteers are to be covered as additional insured as
                           respects liability arising out of work or operations
                           performed by or on behalf of consultant; premises owned,
                           leased or used by consultant; or automobiles owned,

Professional Services Agreement: City of Anderson
Recreation Management Software
                            leased, hired, or borrowed by consultant. The coverage
                            shall contain no special limitations on the scope of
                            protection afforded to City its elected officials, officers,
                            employees, agents, and volunteers.

               ii.         The insurance coverage of consultant shall be primary
                           insurance as respects City, its elected officials, officers,
                           employees, agents, and volunteers. Any insurance or self-
                           insurance maintained by City, its elected officials, officers,
                           employees, agents, and volunteers shall be in excess of
                           consultant’s insurance and shall not contribute with it.

              iii.        Coverage shall state that the insurance of consultant shall
                          apply separately to each insured against whom claim is
                          made or suit is brought except with respect to the limits of
                          the insurer's liability.

              iv.         Each insurance policy required by this Contract shall be
                          endorsed to state that coverage shall not be canceled except
                          after thirty (30) days' prior written notice has been given to
                          City. In addition, consultant agrees that it shall not reduce
                          its coverage or limits on any such policy except after thirty
                          (30) days' prior written notice has been given to City.

         e.      Insurance is to be placed with insurers with a current AM Best's
                 rating of no less than A‐VII.

         f.      Consultant shall designate the City of Anderson as a Certificate
                 Holder of the insurance. Consultant shall furnish City with
                 certificates of insurance and original endorsements affecting the
                 coverage required by this clause. Certificates and endorsements
                 shall be furnished to 1887 Howard Street, Anderson, California
                 96007. The certificates and endorsements for each insurance
                 policy are to be signed by a person authorized by the insurer to
                 bind coverage on its behalf. All endorsements are to be received
                 and approved by the City's Risk Manager prior to the
                 commencement of contracted services.

         g.         The requirements as to the types and limits of insurance coverage
                    to be maintained by consultant as required by this Contract and
                    any approval of said insurance by City are not intended to and will
                    not in any manner limit or qualify the liabilities and obligations
                    otherwise assumed by consultant pursuant to this Contract,


Professional Services Agreement: City of Anderson
Recreation Management Software
                 including without limitation provisions concerning indemnification.

         h.      If any damage, including death, personal injury, or property
                 damage, occurs in connection with the performance of this
                 Contract, consultant shall immediately notify City's Risk Manager
                 by telephone at 530-378-6646 (City Clerk's Telephone Number).
                 No later than three (3) calendar days after the event, consultant
                 shall submit a written report to City's Risk Manager containing the
                 following information as applicable: (1) name and address of
                 injured or deceased person(s); (2) names and addresses of
                 witnesses; (3) name and address of consultant's insurance
                 company; and (4) a detailed description of the damage and
                 whether any City property was involved.


SECTION 10 ‐ GENERAL PROVISIONS
10.1 Access to Records
       Consultant shall maintain all books, records, documents, accounting ledgers,
and similar materials relating to work performed for City under this Agreement on file
for at least (1) year following the date of final payment to Consultant by City. Any duly
authorized representative(s) of City shall have access to such records for the purpose
of inspection, audit and copying at reasonable times, during Consultant's usual and
customary business hours.        Consultant shall provide proper facilities to City’s
representative(s) for access and inspection. Consultant shall be entitled to reasonable
compensation for time and expenses related to such access and inspection activities,
which shall be considered to be an additional service to City, falling under the
provisions of SECTION 4 hereinabove.
10.2 Assignment
       This Agreement is binding to heirs, successors, and assigns of the parties hereto
and shall not be assigned by either City or Consultant without the prior written
consent of the other.
10.3 Changes to Scope of Work ‐ Basic Services
       City may at any time and, upon a minimum of ten (10) days’ written notice,
modify the scope of basic services to be provided under this Agreement. Consultant


Professional Services Agreement: City of Anderson
Recreation Management Software
shall, upon receipt of said notice, determine the impact on both time and
compensation of such change in scope and notify City in writing. Upon agreement
between City and Consultant as to the extent of said impacts to time and
compensation, an amendment to this Agreement shall be prepared describing such
changes. Execution of the amendment by City and Consultant shall constitute the
Consultant's notice to proceed with the changed scope.
10.4 Compliance with Laws, Rules, Regulations
       All services performed by Consultant pursuant to this Agreement shall be
performed in accordance and full compliance with all applicable Federal, State or City
statues, and any rules or regulations promulgated thereunder.
10.5 Conflict of Interest
       If City’s City Manager has determined that one or several of Consultant’s
Principal(s) or Project Manager(s) are subject to any provisions of the Anderson
Municipal Code relating to conflict of interest, or the provisions of any rules or
regulations which may have been promulgated thereunder, then each such person will
be required to comply with said provisions in connection with the services they render
to the City under this Agreement. City shall advise Consultant of any such provisions
prior to the date of execution of this Agreement.
10.6 Exhibits Incorporated
       All Exhibits referred to in this Agreement and attached to it are hereby
incorporated in it by this reference.
10.7 Independent Contractor
       City and Consultant agree that the relationship between them created by this
Agreement does not constitute an employer-employee relationship, a partnership or
joint-venture relationship of any kind between the City of Anderson and the
Consultant. Consultant is not an agent of the City and has no authority to commit the
City in any way whatsoever. Consultant shall be solely responsible for the conduct and
control of the work performed under this Agreement. Consultant shall be free to
render professional consulting services to others during the term of this Agreement, so

Professional Services Agreement: City of Anderson
Recreation Management Software
long as such activities do not interfere with or diminish Consultant's ability to fulfill the
obligations established herein to City.
10.8 Integration; Amendment
       This Agreement represents the entire understanding of City and Consultant as
to those matters contained herein. No prior oral or written understanding shall be of
any force or effect with respect to those matters covered in it. This Agreement may not
be modified or altered except by amendment in writing signed by both parties.
10.9 Jurisdiction
       This Agreement shall be administered and interpreted under the laws of the
State of California. Jurisdiction of litigation arising from this Agreement shall be in that
state. If any part of this Agreement shall be in conflict with applicable laws, such part
shall be inoperative, null, and void insofar as it is in conflict with said laws, but the
remainder of the Agreement shall continue to be in full force and effect.
10.10 Notice to Proceed; Progress; Completion
       Upon execution of this Agreement by the parties, City shall give Consultant
written notice to proceed with the work. Such notice may authorize Consultant to
render all of the services contemplated herein, or such portions or phases as may be
mutually agreed upon. In the latter event, City shall, in its sole discretion, issue
subsequent notices from time to time regarding further portions or phases of the
work. Upon receipt of such notices, Consultants shall diligently proceed with the work
authorized and complete it within the agreed time period.
10.11 Ownership of Documents
       Title to all documents, drawings, specifications, and the like with respect to
work performed under this Agreement shall vest with City at such time as City has
compensated Consultant, as provided herein, for the services rendered by Consultant
in connection with which they were prepared.
10.12 Subcontracts
       Consultant shall be entitled, to the extent determined appropriate by
Consultant, to subcontract any portion of the work to be performed under this

Professional Services Agreement: City of Anderson
Recreation Management Software
Agreement. Consultant shall be responsible to City for the actions of persons and firms
performing subcontract work. The subcontracting of work by Consultant shall not
relieve Consultant, in any manner, of the obligations and requirements imposed upon
Consultant by this Agreement.
10.13 Term; Termination
       The term of this Agreement shall commence upon City’s issuance to Consultant
of a notice to proceed for all or a portion of the work, as hereinabove provided, and
shall end upon City’s acceptance and payment for all or such portion of the work as
was authorized by such notice, including any and all retentions. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, City may, in its sole discretion, terminate this Agreement at any time and for
any reason whosoever by giving at least ten (10) days’ prior written notice of such
termination to Consultant. In any event, termination of the Agreement is subject to the
terms and provisions of Exhibit “A” of this Agreement.
10.14 Notices
       Any notices required to be given pursuant to this Agreement shall be deemed to
have been given by their deposit, postage prepaid, in the United States Postal Service,
addressed to the parties as follows:

a.     To City:                 Jeff Kiser, City Manager
                                City of Anderson
                                1887 Howard Street
                                Anderson, CA 96007



b.     To Consultant:
                                Address

       Nothing hereinabove shall prevent either City or Consultant from personally
delivering any such notices to the other.


       IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have made and executed this
Agreement the day and year first above written.

Professional Services Agreement: City of Anderson
Recreation Management Software
CITY OF ANDERSON


__________________________                    _________________________
Jeff Kiser
City Manager

_________________________                     __________________________
Date                                          Date

APPROVED AS TO FORM:


__________________________
Collin Bogener
City Attorney




Professional Services Agreement: City of Anderson
Recreation Management Software
