                         www.blacklinegroup.com




RFP Guide and Template
Source-to-Pay (S2) Technology RFP
August 12, 2019
Table of Contents


I.       Introduction and Use of the Guide                   3
II.      Market Context – S2P Technology                     3
III.     RFP Preparation & Prework                           4
IV.      Request for Proposal – S2P Technology               7
V.       Supporting RFP Materials                           21
VI.      RFP Close-Out                                      23
VII.     About Blackline Group                              24




                                                 Page │ 2 of 24
 I.      Introduction and Use of the Guide
      The Blackline RFP guide and template is intended to assist Procurement professionals in the
      creation and execution of a wide range RFPs across industries and Procurement spend categories.
      Although organizational needs vary, the guide is a useful starting point from which to configure
      and customize to meet your specific needs.

      Sections 1-3 are intended to assist in understanding current market context and developing the
      approach, strategy and framework for executing a successful RFP.

      Section 4 and 5 are the RFP template itself and supporting materials and Section 6 close-out and
      wrap-up activities.

II.      Market Context – S2P Technology
      Through the early 2010’s, integrated S2P suites were the norm and viewed as the desired end-
      state solution for companies looking to automate and integrate up and down-stream procurement
      functions. Ariba/SAP and Emptoris mostly dominated the landscape with emerging cloud-only
      players like Coupa, Ivalua and Bravo built to be more flexible and less expensive and time
      consuming to implement. Fewer companies were investing in continuing to maintain or upgrade
      cumbersome and expense ERP modules.

      In the past 5 years, in contrast with earlier trends, we have seen the advent of many new best-of-
      breed cloud providers enter the market-up place with niche solutions focused on specific
      capabilities. For instance, ScoutRFP and Bonfire in e-Sourcing and RFx capabilities and Concord
      and Apttus in CLM. Modern cloud architecture, leveraging defined APIs has thwarted the
      migration to end-to-end solutions.

      The improvement in data architecture in general will also likely change the dynamic with regards
      to solution consolidation. The ease in which data can be aggregated and disaggregated will likely
      enable niche and focused solutions to continue to thrive as independent players while forcing the
      larger players to compete on a best-of-breed basis.

      Automation is another significant trend that will impact the S2P space in coming years. Robotic
      process automation (RPA) helps to eliminate manual tasks following simple business rules for well
      defined processes. Unlike RPA, machine learning algorithms can identify patterns in data and are
      may be suitable for tasks that previously required some form of judgement like spend
      classification.

      Cited Sources:

      ATKearney, “The Future of Procurement Technology: Mediocrity is No Longer Acceptable”
      McKinsey & Company, “A road map for digitizing source-to-Pay”




                                                                                           Page │ 3 of 24
III.      RFP Preparation & Prework
       A) Internal Spend and Supplier Analysis

          1) Spend Analysis:

              An analysis of the category and supplier spend profile(s) will ensure your organization is
              able to fully maximize the value of the RFP regarding leveraging internal spend trends both
              past and current.

              a) Prior three year spend trend with incumbent and/or related category supplier(s) to
                 identify all relevant business stakeholders
              b) Category spend analysis to recognize all relevant current suppliers and opportunities
                 to consolidate where appropriate

          2) Current Supplier(s) Review:

              Understand capabilities and performance of the existing supplier base as an input when
              determining utilization of existing suppliers and their future utilization

              a) Supplier analysis modeling used to identify bottleneck suppliers

              b) Quarterly/annual business reviews analysis

              c) Supplier risk assessments (Finance &IT)

              d) Existing contract structure (MSA, SOWs, NDAs, etc.)

          3) Opportunities & Organizational Synergies

              Many organizations have several active suppliers who can provide additional services
              beyond the current engagement(s). Understanding those synergies will allow for financial
              and organizational synergies and benefits.

              a) Leverage cross-category incumbent supplier base
              b) Cross-functional business unit coordination and alignment of business requirements
                 and objectives

       B) Market Researching & Intelligence

          1) Suppliers:

              Analyzing the applicable supplier base outside of your organization can lead to identifying
              best-in-class suppliers who can provide value to your organization.

              a)   Research industry supplier rankings
              b)   Asses feedback provided by peers and past/existing customer reviews
              c)   Financial risk assessments for new and existing suppliers proposed for the RFP
              d)   Cross-referencing external suppliers with any existing spend to ensure proper
                   conversations are made prior to and during the RFP event




                                                                                           Page │ 4 of 24
      e) Work with applicable business units and suppliers alike to ensure there are no conflicts
         or competitive interest

   2) Market Trends:

      Understanding market trends can provide invaluable information of the current landscape
      which assists in creating the RFP, understanding proper length of engagement, pricing, and
      service models.

      a)   Outsourced vs in-house
      b)   On-shore / off-shore
      c)   On-site / off-site
      d)   Technology advancements
      e)   Total cost considerations
      f)   Common SLAs and metrics
      g)   Contractual opportunities and pitfalls

C) Partnering & Communications

   1) Partnering with Business Units Roles & Responsibilities:

      a) Business Stakeholders: Ensure thorough understanding and inclusion of all
         stakeholders and their requirements

           (i)     Roles and responsibilities
           (ii)    Identify subject matter experts
           (iii)   Understand and communicate RFP process timelines and expectations for all
                   parties
           (iv)    Comprehensive understanding of service requirements
           (v)     GAP analysis of existing and future state (services, cost, agreements, etc.)

      b) Technology: Engage IT early in the process to ascertain requirements for the RFP. In
         doing so, appropriate lead time is provider for IT analysis and information security
         assessments.

           (i)     Security assessments
           (ii)    Level of effort expectations and roadmap alignment
           (iii)   Expense forecasts for integrations, supplier changes, etc.

      c) Legal: Legal engagement early in the process will allow for efficiencies later in the
         contracting process.

           (i)     Draft master service agreement, statement of work, and non-disclosure
                   agreements established early and incorporated in to the RFP process
           (ii)    Define level-of-effort during RFP cycle
           (iii)   Risk assessments

   2) Supplier Partnering & Communications:




                                                                                    Page │ 5 of 24
a) Communicating with the targeted supplier base for the RFP early and often will greatly
   increase supplier engagement and support timely responses
b) Incumbent supplier(s): partner with the applicable business unit(s) to ensure continuity
   of service, enhance partnership, and foster healthy communication channels both
   internal to the organization and with the supplier
c) Legal: Ensuring existing non-disclosure agreements are up to date and active with both
   existing and new suppliers
d) Messaging: Provide a positive and partnering message to all suppliers to increase
   engagement and competitive bidding among suppliers




                                                                            Page │ 6 of 24
IV.      Request for Proposal – S2P Technology
      A) Company Overview:

         Overview Insight [delete italics and replace with your information]

         Provide a brief overview of your organization providing relevant context for participating suppliers.

         1)   Corporate mission
         2)   Portfolio of products/services
         3)   Employee count
         4)   Geographical footprint
         5)   Company culture
         6)   Principles and values

         Sample:

         [Company] is the world's largest service provider with more than 80 million members in 100
         countries and territories around the globe.

         Our mission: Create mutually beneficial opportunities for every one of our customers. Our customers
         get access to [list all services] helping you be successful. [Company] started out in the garage of our
         co-founder John Doe in [enter date] and has grown to the size of [enter detail].

         John Doe is the CEO, and the company's management team is made up of seasoned executives who
         share a common vision and end-goal. [Company] has a diversified business model with revenues
         coming from several different services and products.

      B) Objective:

         Objective Insight [delete italics and replace with your information]

         Thoroughly describe the objective of this RFP with as many pertinent details as possible to ensure a
         clear and comprehensive vision is shared with suppliers. Adding all applicable details including
         historical and forecasted data, impacted business units, timelines, and expectations will reduce the
         number of questions suppliers have following the dissemination of the RFP.

         Sample:

         [Company]’s Procurement organization is responsible for managing the entire Supply Management
         Lifecycle for all procured goods and services used by all Lines of Business (LOBs) across the company.
         Procurement serves its LOB partners serves with the following primary functions: Strategic Sourcing,
         Contract Management, Procure-to-Pay and Supplier Management.

           Category               Strategic           Contract             Procure-to-          Supplier
          Management              Sourcing           Management               Pay              Management


         In addition, the shared services team provides project management, technology and process support,
         analytics, as well as compliance and reporting. The shared services team also manages [Company]’s
         supplier diversity program and procure-to-pay services.



                                                                                                 Page │ 7 of 24
   Internal compliance requires that that we: have documented selection policies and procedures,
   exercise proper due diligence in identifying and selecting third-party providers, maintain written
   contracts that outline duties, obligations, and responsibilities of the parties involved, and exercise
   ongoing oversight of the third parties and third-party activities. The technology solutions that we use
   should be supportive of both our business requirements and compliance obligations.

   The platform or aggregate use of multiple platforms should offer a simple, intuitive and modern user
   interface that includes (but is not limited) to the following functionality: sourcing, contracting, spend
   analysis, supplier portal, supplier relationship and risk management, purchase order and invoice
   processing.

C) Background:

   Background Insight [delete italics and replace with your information]

   Provide a wide-ranging history of desired [enter service/product] to offer suppliers an understanding
   of where your company has been and how you arrived at your current [service/product] state of
   requirements. Where possible, omit all current negative service levels to protect the organization
   from predatory bidding and to ensure strong partnering and continuity of supply with the incumbent
   supplier.

   Background Sample

   Procurement is seeking a S2P technology to enable fully integrated procurement, purchase-to-pay,
   supplier interaction and management processes. The successful bidder should provide a solution that
   is:

   1) Simple to use and provides a great end-user experience
   2) Has a modern interface that allows users to do all their work from one screen
   3) Provides clearly defined APIs in order to share data and information between multiple technology
      solutions
   4) Scalable, flexible and configurable platform capable of evolving with our processes
   5) Capable of supporting e-Signature functionality and contains additional internal/external
      collaboration solutions integrated throughout platform
   6) Capable of supporting mobile functionality for key processes and approvals
   7) Able to connect with existing [Company] solutions (e.g. Salesforce, DocuSign, and Workday)

D) Requirements:

   Service Requirements Insight [delete italics and replace with your information]

   Provide a list of requirements suppliers can turn to for an easy go-to list to ensure all components are
   considered when submitting bids.

   Requirements Sample

   1) Supplier Portal, Supplier Management, and PO Automation

       The S2P solution should have a highly configurable supplier self-service portal that enables self-
       registration and reporting by suppliers. Suppliers should be able to upload documentation,


                                                                                             Page │ 8 of 24
   certifications and invoices as required. On the [Company] facing side, the module should provide
   a supplier master data view (a comprehensive view of the supplier’s relationship with [Company])
   as well as support proactive risk and performance management. The solution should be capable
   of automatically generating purchase orders based on contract terms and allow suppliers to
   submit invoices directly against those purchase orders. [Company] is looking for support for the
   following capabilities.

   a)   Supplier Portal / Vendor Registration
   b)   Supplier Master Functionality
   c)   Supplier Management
   d)   Invoice / Purchase Order Automation

2) Strategic Sourcing

   The sourcing module of the solution should support online collaboration with suppliers and
   [Company] associates both within Procurement and the broader enterprise. The solution should
   have the full range of functionality with respect to creating various solicitations (RFI, RFP, RFQ,
   and online auctions). The solution should enable streamlined response analysis with solutions
   embedded in the solution (e.g. RFx scorecards, pricing templates).

   a) Business and Market Intelligence

        (i)     Market Intelligence
        (ii)    Analytics and Strategy

   b) RFx Process Management

        (i)     Project Set Up
        (ii)    RFx Development
        (iii)   RFx Release
        (iv)    RFx Response Management, Collaboration, and Scoring
        (v)     e-Negotiation
        (vi)    Event Archiving

3) Contract Management

   The contracting module of the solution should be capable of tightly integrating with MS
   Word and enable streamlined contract creation. The solution should be capable of flowing
   contract terms to a purchase order or invoice. The solution should contain hierarchical
   functionality and users should be able to search for stored contract documents using
   intuitive, straight forward parameters.

   a)   Contract Drafting
   b)   Word Plug In
   c)   Searching
   d)   Researching
   e)   Contract Record Metadata Fields




                                                                                       Page │ 9 of 24
    4) Spend Visibility

        a) Spend Upload
        b) Spend Classification/ Categorization

    5) Reporting/Analysis

        a)   General Reporting
        b)   Supplier Diversity Reporting
        c)   Contracts Reporting
        d)   Sourcing Reporting


E) Questionnaire:

    Questionnaire Insight [delete italics and replace with your information]
    Deliver the most comprehensive list of questions possible for Procurement and key decision makers to
    adeptly understand the suppliers, their approach, and service deliveries in a side-by-side model which
    promotes specificity, organization, and decision making in the RFP bid analysis process.

    Questionnaire sample:


 Company                    1. Please describe your organization and management structure,
 Information:                  particularly with respect to your [service/product]. Please include
                               primary locations and key contacts who will be supporting
                               [Company].
                            2. Are there any changes or modifications to the current business
                               model and offering which would alter delivery of [services/product]
                               to [Company]?
                            3. Please provide your Dun & Bradstreet number:
                            4. How does your company provide an operational competitive
                               advantage over your competitors?
                            5. Describe any significant relationships your company can offer
                               regionally with reference to the scope of this RFP.
                            6. Please outline any innovative strategies your company has
                               implemented in the past three (3) years and what innovations are
                               in pipeline for the coming three (3) years.
                            7. Is your company currently or expecting to be involved in any
                               mergers or acquisitions which will have any impact
                               [service/product] offering?
                            8. Is your company categorized as a small or diverse business?
                            9. How does your company weigh the satisfaction of its employees to
                               operational results and failures? Please provide detailed examples.

 REQUIREMENTS:

 For the below requirements, provide a response of 1-6 according to the values below. Please insert
 relevant comments as appropriate to substantiate or clarify your response.



                                                                                                Page │ 10 of 24
1 = Available as part of standard solution
2 = Available with configuration
3 = Available with code change (customization required/allowed)
4 = Available through a technology partner (if selected please name the partner in your response)
5 = Not currently available, will be a roadmap item (provide details i.e. anticipated release date)
6 = Not available
Supplier Portal,          1. The solution must give [Company] the ability to send a supplier an
Supplier                      invitation to register.
Management, and           2. Suppliers must have the ability to update their profile information
PO Automation                 in the system.
                          3. The solution must have a mechanism that will prevent duplicate
                              suppliers from registering.
                          4. The solution must provide the capability to administer category
                              specific registration surveys to suppliers based on expressed
                              business interests or other parameters.
                          5. The solution must assign a unique ID to every supplier that
                              registers.
                          6. The solution must allow suppliers to be linked or grouped together
                              (e.g. Parent Company/Subsidiary).
                          7. The system must be capable of ingesting supplier records from
                              external sources.
                          8. 8. The solution must give [Company] end users the ability to pull
                              supplier information from the supplier master database for use
                              throughout the system, including, but not limited to, sourcing
                              projects, contract records, etc.
                          9. The solution must allow suppliers to upload documents into the
                              portal.
                          10. The solution must allow two-way interactions between a supplier
                              and [Company].
                          11. The solution must give [Company] the ability to create customized
                              forms that can be filled out by suppliers.
                          12. The solution must give [Company] the ability to create electronic
                              scorecards.
                          13. The solution must give [Company] the ability to capture site
                              assessments.
                          14. The solution must give [Company] the ability to capture risk
                              assessments.
                          15. The solution must give [Company] the ability to group various
                              third-party management activities.
                          16. The solution must have the ability to assign third party
                              management tasks.
                          17. The solution must allow [Company] to auto-generate a purchase
                              order (PO) from contract terms.
                          18. The solution must allow suppliers to submit/manage invoices
                              through the supplier portal.
                          19. The solution must provide a mechanism so that invoices can be
                              approved in the system.


                                                                                           Page │ 11 of 24
                     20. The solution must give suppliers the ability to flip a PO into an
                         invoice.
Strategic Sourcing   1. The successful solution must provide visibility into organizational
                         spend as defined in the Spend Visibility & Analysis requirements.
                     2. The solution provides access to historical sourcing events for the
                         reuse of work product? Please provide details.
                     3. The solution is capable of allowing users to automatically add
                         suppliers from the supplier portal, providing them with the ability
                         to create a supplier list for the sourcing event? Please provide
                         details.
                     4. Users are able to create RFx sections, sub sections, and questions
                         without the use of templates, libraries, or a central Sourcing
                         Administrator.
                     5. The solution provides templates and libraries that allow users to
                         create RFx sections, sub sections, and questions.
                     6. Creation of new templates is controlled at the "super user" level
                         (e.g., Administrators and Sourcing Administrators).
                     7. The solution provides automated method(s) to upload the RFx
                         content from a spreadsheet or other document template.
                     8. The solution has robust search functionality allowing users to
                         search the database for previous and/or existing sourcing projects
                         (e.g., search by project title, participant, timeframe, etc.).
                     9. The solution allows prerequisites to be built in the RFx preventing
                         bidders from viewing RFx content until the prerequisites are
                         satisfied (e.g., acceptance of a non-disclosure agreement, general
                         terms).
                     10. The solution allows definition of specific answer formats (e.g., text,
                         numeric, specific list of choices, attachments, etc.).
                     11. The solution allows definition of specific answer character length
                         (e.g. one line vs multi line answers).
                     12. The solution allows definition of specific answer character length
                         (e.g. one line vs multi line answers).
                     13. The solution allows definition of field input validation rules (e.g.
                         text, currency, numerical) to ensure that the response is properly
                         formatted or is within a valid range.
                     14. The solution allows attachment of electronic files and URL links to
                         specific questions within the event for reference purposes (and
                         limited to line items designated by the user).
                     15. The solution gives a [Company] user to preview the RFx as a bidder
                         would see it before sending it out to bidders (without requiring a
                         test RFx to be published or released).
                     16. The solution has export capabilities that will enable offline review
                         of the RFx document.
                     17. The solution enables restriction of access (read, write, etc.) by user
                         level.
                     18. The solution allows users to identify potential bidders based on
                         criteria specific to the event.



                                                                                     Page │ 12 of 24
19. The solution must support the release process This includes the
    following: submission rules & timing, communication with bidders
    (pre and post release), prebid meetings, demonstrations, etc.
20. The solution must be capable of allowing a user to modify an RFx
    before, during and after a release (e.g. timing, content, bidders,
    team member, etc.). (This must be accomplished without having to
    submit a separate or new event and should not result in data loss
    outside of the areas being revised.)
21. The solution must support collaboration (internal & external to
    [Company]), response management, and evaluation of the bidders
    being considered. Internal collaboration includes core RFx teams,
    RFx stakeholders, and [Company] leadership. External
    collaboration includes potential bidders, bidders, and other
    external parties (e.g. third party consultants, existing partners).
22. The solution must support management all supplier interaction
    including: prebid meetings, bidder presentations, site visits, etc.
23. The solution must enable users to easily and effectively review,
    compare, and evaluate all bidder responses.
24. The solution must be capable of easily exporting all data related to
    RFx responses (response, scores, comments, evaluator’s comments)
    for review outside of solution (e.g. in spreadsheet or text document
    formats).
25. The solution must be capable of generating RFx specific scorecards
    based on the bidder responses.
26. The solution must be able to create a comparison view of all bidder
    responses.
27. The solution must have automated scoring/grading functionality.
28. The solution must be capable of creating scoring weighting by
    section, subsection, and/or question.
29. The solution must allow scoring criteria to be defined for sections,
    subsections and questions.
30. The solution must support bidding components that increase or
    decrease in the same event.
31. The solution must allow user defined competitive visibility (what
    the bidder sees) for each auction.
32. The solution must support use of established/standard templates
    and libraries as well as user created templates (including the use of
    previous events as a template).
33. The solution must enable [Company] users to establish a minimum
    allowable bid change/decrease by event.
34. The solution must contain bid rules that prevent bidders from
    decreasing their bid by an unreasonable amount (i.e. by mistake).
35. The solution must support bid amounts up to four decimal places.
36. The solution must support user developed lots for creating
    severable award components.
37. The solution must have the ability to (automatically) migrate
    bidder content from a prior RFx and incorporate it into a current
    auction.


                                                               Page │ 13 of 24
              38. The solution must support multi-currency, multi-language and time
                  zone conversions.
              39. The solution must be capable of supporting several concurrent
                  [Company] participants logged on to an event.
              40. The solution must prevent bidders from seeing competitor's bids.
              41. The solution must be capable of allowing an auction administrator
                  to stop the auction before the predetermined time.
              42. The solution must be capable of allowing an auction administrator
                  to create manual time extensions during an event.
              43. The solution must be capable of allowing an auction administrator
                  to pause an event.
              44. The solution must allow a bidder to attach a document (s) to the
                  event.
              45. The solution must include customizable workflows for process
                  approval/management (including documentation review). This
                  solution must have standard workflows as well as event specific
                  workflow capabilities. Users must have the ability to override
                  workflows as necessary.
              46. The solution must have the ability to archive all required sourcing
                  event documentation for compliance with [Company] policies and
                  procedures as well as for knowledge base development and re-use
                  of historical work product.
              47. The solution must give [Company] the ability to restrict 'edit'
                  privileges once a sourcing project is completed. For example,
                  [Company] must be able to vary who is allowed to edit and delete
                  sourcing projects. The ability to delete finalized sourcing records
                  should be locked down to users with Administrative rights only.

Contracting   1. [Company] must have the ability to upload multiple contract
                 templates into the system which end users would be able to
                 download (end users should only be able to download the most
                 recent version of the template that has been approved by legal).
                 The ability to upload contract templates should be restricted to
                 users with certain access rights.
              2. [Company] must have the ability to build out an alternate clause
                 library that would give end users the ability to insert alternate
                 clauses into either: their downloaded [Company] contract
                 templates or third party contract templates.
              3. The solution must provide a mechanism for handling third party
                 contract templates.
              4. The solution must give [Company] the ability to create separate
                 processes (lifecycles) for different types of contracts (i.e.,
                 Procurement vs Non-Disclosure Agreement).
              5. The solution must give end users the ability to compare redlined
                 versions of contracts including the ability to compare any two
                 versions regardless of whether the versions are sequential (i.e.,
                 Version 1 to Version 10 or Version 4 to Version 6).



                                                                           Page │ 14 of 24
6. Upon completion of a contract, [Company] requires all versions
    except for the final version to be purged from the system.
7. The solution must give [Company] the ability to create dynamic
    workflows that would allow end users, at their discretion, to send
    contracts for review/escalation to other internal departments (e.g.,
    compliance, legal, information assurance).
8. [Company] structures most of its contracts so that there is a
    Master Agreement (parent) and a Statement of Work/Sub-
    Agreement (child). When dealing with contract amendments,
    [Company] requires a specific way to handle amendments that
    would not require the creation of a child contract record. We must
    have the ability to edit metadata attributes and store an amended
    contract document within the original contract record. [Company]
    does not want to be required to create a child contract record for
    each contract amendment. Is your system capable of supporting
    this requirement?
9. [Company] requires the ability for multiple end users to amend the
    same contract record at the same time (i.e., User A is working on
    Amendment 4 and User B is working on Amendment 5).
10. [Company] would like to have the ability to create a Contract
    Summary document that would capture and summarize the details
    of the contract record. This Contract Summary would provide an
    executive summary of the contract, highlight risks, and detail the
    terms of the contract. [Company] must be able to extract this
    contract summary into a visually appealing Word or PDF
    document. Is your system capable of supporting this requirement?
11. The solution must offer a Microsoft Word plug-in that would allow
    end users to draft and edit their contract documents from within
    Microsoft Word. All Microsoft Word functionality, including by not
    limited to formatting, review, and view options must be available to
    end users and not restricted by your solution. Is your system
    capable of supporting this requirement?
12. Can information contained in metadata fields within the system be
    auto-populated into a [Company] contract template and vice versa
    (“smart” data fields)?
13. End users must have the ability to drag and drop clauses from an
    alternate clause library into their Word document (if using a
    [Company] template or third party contract template).
14. End users must be able to "check in" (upload) a contract to the
    system from within Microsoft Word without requiring a manually
    upload from their desktop into the system.
15. The solution must give [Company] the ability to control which end
    users and/or user groups have the ability to create certain types of
    contracts (i.e., Procurement vs Non-Disclosure Agreement).
16. [Company] must have the ability to copy metadata fields from a
    parent contract record to a child contract record upon creation of
    the child contract record.




                                                              Page │ 15 of 24
17. If metadata fields can be copied from a parent contract record to a
    child contract record, [Company] wants to specify which fields can
    be copied (in lieu of all metadata fields being copied). If metadata
    fields are copied from a parent contract record to a child contract
    record, can the end user vary the metadata field for the child
    contract if it varies from the parent contract record?
18. The solution must allow users to conduct in-document text
    searching. If your solution has this functionality, please describe
    how this works. Does the end user have the download the contract
    to search within the contract? For example, if the end user searches
    "XYZ" will the solution find every contract where "XYZ" appears in
    the document?
19. The solution must allow users to conduct BOOLEAN searches (the
    ability to perform searches combining keywords with AND, NOT,
    and OR operators).
20. The solution must give end users the ability to perform searches by
    typing text into a search bar as opposed to being required to specify
    exactly what field to search (e.g., supplier name, contract name).
21. The solution must offer smarter/faster search capabilities that
    would predict what an end user is typing, show results as a user is
    typing, and return results quickly.
22. The solution must offer smarter/faster search capabilities that
    would predict what an end user is typing, show results as a user is
    typing, and return results quickly.
23. [Company] requires there to be a direct linkage to a contract
    record from a sourcing event.
24. [Company] must have the ability to create a contract record from a
    sourcing event upon award. If your solution offers this capability,
    there must be controls that [Company] can put in place that would
    only allow a contract user to create a contract from a sourcing
    project.
25. [Company] must have the ability to successfully keep track of
    supplier name changes (formerly known as names and/or supplier
    acquisitions) and locate contracts that are archived under a
    previous entity name.
26. The solution must automatically update contract term and
    contract status metadata fields (i.e., Calculate a new expiration
    date when a contract auto renews, update the contract status from
    Active to Expired upon contract expiration).
27. [Company] must have the ability customize various
    processes/workflows for different user groups as well as create
    custom approval workflows.
28. The solution must give [Company] the ability to restrict 'edit'
    privileges once a contract record is completed. For example,
    [Company] must be able to vary who is allowed to edit and delete
    contract records. The ability to delete finalized contract records
    should be locked down to users with Administrative rights only.




                                                               Page │ 16 of 24
                       29. The solution must provide reporting and expiration notification
                           features to support contract record maintenance (i.e., contract
                           expiration 60 days out or contract renewal 30 days out).
                       30. [Company] must have the ability to customize any notifications
                           that are generated from the system.

Spend Visibility and 1. [Company] must be able to upload files into the solution from
Analysis                external sources.
                       2.  The solution must be able to support multiple currencies.
                       3.  The database structure must support a preview mode.
                       4.  The solution must be able to categorize spend data.
                       5.  The solution must allow suppliers to be tagged (e.g., diverse, women
                           owned, etc.).
                       6. The solution must have a process to enrich data (e.g., categorize
                           spend, provide global parentage information).
                       7. The solution must allow [Company] to create reports that contain
                           comprehensive views of suppliers (e.g., spend, contracts, sourcing,
                           etc.).
                       8. [Company] end users must have the ability to create and save
                           reports in the solution.
                       9. The solution must be able to produce comprehensive reports that
                           will allow [Company] users to pull data from different modules (e.g.,
                           sourcing, contracting, etc.) into one single view/report.
                       10. The solution must allow [Company] to pull data on cycle times for
                           each module (i.e., Pull reports on a contract lifecycle detailing
                           exactly how long a contract was in each phase of the life cycle).
                       11. The solution must give [Company] the ability to pull reports on the
                           number of contracts that are 'In Process' by User as well as the
                           number of contracts 'Completed' by each user.
                       12. The solution must give [Company] the ability to pull reports on the
                           number of sourcing projects that are 'In Process' by User as well as
                           the number of sourcing projects 'Completed' by each user.
                       13. The solution must give [Company] the ability to create reports
                           using supplier registration information.
                       14. The solution must be capable of allowing administrators or
                           reporting "super users" to create reports that can be pushed and/or
                           made available to other end users.

Integration and        1. The solution must have the ability to interface with other platforms
graphical user            outside your system.
interface              2. The solution must bi-directionally interface with Salesforce.
                       3. The solution must integrate with our procurement helpdesk (a
                          Salesforce tool).
                       4. The solution must allow information collected during
                          contracting/sourcing process to flow to and from Salesforce.
                       5. The solution must allow information collected during supplier set
                          up process to flow to and from Salesforce.


                                                                                      Page │ 17 of 24
                          6. The solution must bi-directionally interface with DocuSign.
                          7. Documents must be passed between the solution and DocuSign
                              automatically without users having to manually download them
                              from your system and upload them into DocuSign?
                          8. Fully executed documents from DocuSign can be passed to the
                              solution automatically without users having to manually extract
                              them from DocuSign and upload them into your solution for
                              archival?
                          9. The Supplier Portal must integrate with DocuSign allowing for
                              [Company] to obtain signatures and/or internal approvals on
                              supplier due diligence documentation. Documents should easily
                              transfer between the Supplier Portal and DocuSign without
                              needing to be manually downloaded/uploaded as well as
                              information contained in metadata fields.
                          10. The solution must provide [Company] users with the ability to view
                              the ENTIRE DocuSign Envelope Summary from within the solution
                              including the current Envelope Status (In Process, Complete, etc.)
                              and the complete routing order (who has signed/viewed the
                              envelope, who the envelope is currently sitting with, and who still
                              needs to sign).
                          11. The solution must bi-directionally interface with Workday;
                              particularly the HR module.
                          12. The solution must integrate with [ERP].
                          13. Metadata fields from the solution must automatically flow
                              automatically to and from [ERP].


F) Pricing/Rate Sheet:

   Pricing/Rate Sheet Insight [delete italics and replace with your information]
   Set a specific rate sheet can be beneficial for suppliers to provide bids. This is also advantageous to
   the key decision makers at it provides a side-by-side costing analysis of services. An approach to
   consider: eliminate a rate sheet and allow for suppliers to provide a cost structure which they believe
   will be a best fit for the organization. In this approach, ensure normalization of bids is possible.

   Pricing/Rate Sheet Sample


   S2P%20Solution%20
       Pricing.xlsx


G) Timeline

   Timeline Insight [delete italics and replace with your information]

   Create an in-depth RFP timeline with coordination from all stakeholders (BU, IT, Legal, etc.). This will
   provide significant advantages in maintaining timeliness, strong engagement and project
   management.



                                                                                          Page │ 18 of 24
   Timeline Sample
   Please review the RFP timeline (below) and contract [RFP owner] with any questions or concerns.

        Action                                             Date                      Accountability
        NDA signed and returned
        RFP Document Issued
        Intention to Participate
        RFP clarification Deadline for Vendor
        questions Q&A’s received
        Q&A Calls
        RFP Submission Date
        Supplier Presentations – On/Off Site
        Down Selection of Shortlist Vendors
        Discussions with Shortlist Vendors
        (potential requirement for site visits)
        Contract and Pricing Negotiation
        Award
        Planning
        Kick-Off Implementation
        Go-Live

H) Terms and Conditions

       Work with your Legal department on a comprehensive list of terms and conditions for RFPs to
       ensure all liabilities are covered. [delete italics and replace with your information]

   1) This RFP is for discussion and evaluation purposes of the contemplated transaction only.
      Submission of a response to this RFP is expressly conditioned upon Partners’ agreement to the
      terms set forth herein. For clarity, this RFP or any response from Partner to this RFP shall not
      constitute a binding agreement until Partner and Company have duly executed one or more
      definitive agreements. Company and the Partner shall be bound by the terms of the mutual
      confidentiality and non-disclosure agreement entered between the parties.

   2) Company reserves the right to accept other than the apparent lowest priced proposal and to
      accept or reject any proposal in whole or in part or reject all proposals with or without notice or
      reasons. Company may amend, supplement, or withdraw the RFP at any time.

   3) All answers to this proposal should be numbered as per the corresponding number of each
      question and should follow the same format as this RFP.

   4) Quantities stated in this RFP are for informational purposes only and shall not be binding on
      Company. Such information supplied by Company is for the convenience of the respondents only
      and Company makes no warranty regarding the accuracy of any data or information provided.

   5) Any costs incurred by a respondent to this RFP in connection with the preparation or submission
      of a response or any other expenses attendant thereto are the sole responsibility of that


                                                                                          Page │ 19 of 24
    respondent and neither Company nor any of its business units, affiliates or subsidiaries has any
    obligation, under any circumstances, to reimburse or otherwise compensate the respondent for
    expenses so incurred.

6) Respondent shall not issue or cause the issuance of any press release or other publication of the
   existence of this RFP without the prior consent of Company.

7) Respondent shall not publish photographs or articles, make speeches about, or publicize the
   existence or scope of any agreement resulting from this RFP without first obtaining prior written
   consent from Company.

8) The preparation of a response to this RFP shall serve as evidence of the respondent’s acceptance
   of the terms contained herein.

9) If a respondent should decline to offer a proposal, all materials and information received
   pursuant to this RFP shall be promptly returned to Company and any copies made thereof shall
   be immediately destroyed.

10) This RFP, all information contained herein, and all Company specifications and samples provided
    herewith shall be considered Company confidential information and subject to the mutual
    confidential disclosure agreement by and between respondent and Company.

11) All suppliers receiving such documents shall use them solely for responding to this RFP.

12) The information contained or referred to in the RFP is not to be used, disclosed or released for
    any other use or purpose and should be returned to Company or destroyed when requested.




                                                                                      Page │ 20 of 24
V.      Supporting RFP Materials
     A) Supplier List

        Enter suppliers in the tracker (below). Organizing suppliers and their profiles will assist with
        supplier communications as well as on-going negotiations throughout the RFP.
                          Supplier   Contact                     NDA      Current     Current       BUs
          ID   Supplier                        Contact Email
                          Contact     Phone                     Signed    Supplier     Spend     Supported
         1
         2
         3


     B) Communications

        1) RFP Participation & Communication

        Build a strong partnership with all applicable suppliers to assist in providing significant value
        and engagement during the RFP process. Each supplier should feel as though they’re a partner
        of your organization. Striking the tone of partnership at the outset of the engagement can
        create valuable tone and structure through the sourcing event.

        Subject:

        You’ve Been Selected to Participate in an Upcoming RFP from [Insert Company name]

        Body:

        Dear Supplier,

        [Company] has selected your company to participate in [title of RFP] RFP as we believe you’re
        an industry leader in the [specific service/product pursuant to RFP] and believe your company
        has the potential of being a strategic partner. Please review the RFP documentation attached
        as this will outline scope, timelines, questionnaires, and RFP terms and conditions. Please
        direct all questions to [name, phone, email].

        Thank you for your consideration and participation!

        Sender

        2) RFP Awarded Supplier

        When sending the RFP Award email, ensure you’re capturing both the stakeholder’s
        viewpoints as well as ensuring the status of contractual and pricing engagements. It should be
        clear to the supplier they should continue to engage in negotiations in the same manner as
        before receiving the award.

        Subject:

        Intent to Award [enter RFP]

        Body:



                                                                                          Page │ 21 of 24
   Dear Supplier,

   It is our pleasure to inform you, after careful consideration and analysis of your RFP bid,
   [Company] has selected [Supplier] for the award of [enter RFP title]. We want to thank you for
   all the time and dedication you have put into the proposal and sourcing process and we
   sincerely look forward to this partnership.

   This award does not represent an executed agreement or purchase order. It is the assumption,
   based on the communications of this RFP cycle, [Supplier] will continue to negotiate the [enter
   agreement name] and pricing in good faith.

   Sincerely,

   Sender

   3) RFP Non-Awarded Supplier(s)

   The RFP bid-rejection email should be concise but conscious the supplier has invested time
   and money into the RFP. Provide a straightforward message with an opening to future
   business opportunities.

   Subject:

   [RFP title]

   Body:

   Dear Supplier,

   After careful evaluation and analysis of your RFP submission, we regret to inform you
   [Company] will be moving forward with another supplier. We’re thankful for your
   participation and look forward to your inclusion and partnership regarding future business
   opportunities with [Company]. If you have any questions or concerns, please contact [RFP
   manager].

   Thank You Again,

   Sender

C) RFP Assessment

   Partner with all key decision makers to determine scoring criteria and associated weights.
   Aggregate scoring from all stakeholders and present the findings. This will provide talking
   points, maintain engagement and generate an award output for the supplier who scores the
   highest which will greatly assist in the decision-making process. The worksheet (below) is
   preconfigured for an assessment.



      Assessment
     Worksheet.xlsx




                                                                                  Page │ 22 of 24
VI.      RFP Close-Out
      A) Stakeholder Review

         Engage with all stakeholders to ensure approvals are met with all objectives and requirements
         of the RFP.

         1) Supplier relationship management
         2) SLA/KPI/Metric governance reviews
         3) Future RFP cycle

      B) Legal Review

         Consult with your Legal team to ensure all agreements are in place and no other action is
         needed.

         1) Full Legal review and approval
         2) Note and identify any necessary future amendments required
            a) Note coming potential laws which may impact the existing agreement
         3) Communication to stakeholders of potential Legal risks to consider moving forward
            a) Providing stakeholders with a schedule of items to consider and when provides an
                excellent opportunity to continue to partner with the stakeholder and set-up the
                organization for success

      C) IT Security Review

         Partner with IT Security on closing-out all action items. Ensure Legal and IT agree on and
         document applicable amendments.

         1) All pertinent IT riders have been sent to Legal for attachment to agreement
         2) All IT entities have reviewed and approved supplier capabilities

      D) Post RFP Team Reviews and To-Do’s

         Review and document all RFP actions, findings, and outcomes. This will provide significant
         value not only to the Procurement organization but to all applicable BUs as well.

         1) Lessons learned
         2) Negotiating techniques and results
            a) This will not only benefit the next specific RFP but also insight into other sourcing
               activities
         3) Storage of all documents for reference




                                                                                         Page │ 23 of 24
VII.   About Blackline Group
       Blackline Group is a specialty services firm which focuses solely on Procurement.

       We offer steady-state back-office services which blend spend analytics, sourcing automation,
       and seasoned Procurement resources to lift your team’s performance.

       Easy to consume, our services are delivered side by side with your team as a subscription-

       based model with sustained momentum — no more project fatigue.



       To discuss your needs, please contact Blackline for a confidential discussion:



                              Andy Brown
                              Principal

                              Blackline Group, Inc.
                              abrown@blacklinegroup.com
                              (206) 861-1455 mobile
                              (206) 866-9810 Office




                              David Auffert
                              Sr. Manager

                              Blackline Group, Inc.
                              dauffert@blacklinegroup.com
                              (720) 431-1665 mobile
                              (206) 866-9810 Office




                                                                                        Page │ 24 of 24
