5. COMPETITIVE BIDDING METHODS
5.0 • INTRODUCTION
This chapter provides recommended guidelines and procedures that should be used when
seeking vendors and contractors to perform services and for consultant service contracts. Most
of these guidelines are based on existing State policy and established practices; some are also
based on statutory requirements.
5.01 • TABLE OF CONTENTS
         (Rev 11/12)

     DESCRIPTION                                                                    SECTION
     Introduction                                                                   5.00
     Table of Contents                                                              5.01
     Statutory and Regulatory References                                            5.02
     Fundamental Rules                                                              5.03
     Preliminary Considerations and Decisions                                       5.04
     Competitive Bidding Requirements and Alternatives                              5.05
     Comparison Chart of Bidding Methods                                            5.06
     Differences Between IFBs and Primary RFPs                                      5.07
     Primary RFP and Secondary RFP Differences                                      5.08
     Invitation for Bids                                                            5.11
     Request for Proposals                                                          5.15
     Request for Proposals: Primary Method                                          5.20
     Request for Proposals: Secondary Method (Point Count or High Score)            5.25
     Required Language in Competitive Bidding Documents                             5.30
     Drafting an RFP                                                                5.35
     Guidelines for Criteria and Considerations in Evaluating RFPs                  5.40
     Tie Bids                                                                       5.45
     Time for Completion of the Competitive Bidding Process                         5.60
     Posting and Notification Requirements                                          5.65
     Competitive Bidding Issues                                                     5.70
     Advertising State-Contracting Opportunities                                    5.75
     Contracts Exempt from Advertising in the CSCR and Competitive Bidding          5.80
     Amendments                                                                     5.81
     Multiple Awards                                                                5.85
     Contracts Under Ten-Thousand Dollars                                           5.90




                                              52
5.02 • STATUTORY AND REGULATORY REFERENCES
        (Rev 1/14)
A.     Public Contract Code Sections
       1.      DVBE participation and incentives. (PCC § 10115 see also Mil &Vet code § 999, et
               seq.)
       2.      Service contracts. (PCC §§ 10295, and 10335 et seq.)
       3.      Consultant services contracts. (PCC §§ 10295, and 10335 et seq.)
       4.      Conflict of interest by current and former State employees. (PCC §§ 10410 – 10411.)
B.     Government Code Sections
       1.      Target Area Contract Preference Act (TACPA) (GC §§ 4530 – 4535).
       2.      Antitrust claims (GC §§ 4550-4554).
       3.      Small business bidder preference (GC § 14838).
       4.      Nondiscrimination compliance programs (GC § 12990).
       5.      California State Contracts Register advertising (GC §§ 14825 - 14829.2).
       6.      SB and DVBE quotes (GC §§ 14838.5, 14838.7)
C.     Title 2, California Code of Regulations
       1.      Contract protest procedures (section 1195).
       2.      Application of small business, TACPA, and DVBE regulations (section 1896 et
               seq.).

5.03 • FUNDAMENTAL RULES
       (Rev 10/98)
A.     An agency may not draft any competitive bidding document (i.e., IFB or RFP) in a manner
       that limits bidding directly or indirectly to any one bidder. (PCC § 10339.)
B.     Services may not be split to avoid the need to advertise or obtain competitive bids. In
       particular, a series of related services that would normally be combined and bid as one job
       cannot be split into separate tasks, steps, phases, locations, or delivery times to avoid
       adhering to a State law, policy, or departmental procedure. (PCC § 10329.)
C.     Sealed bids must be received at the place and by the time stated in the IFB or RFP. Bids
       received after the time stated in the solicitation document are not valid regardless of the
       circumstances causing the late submittal. (PCC § 10341.)
D.     The sealed cost bids for an IFB and RFP primary must be publicly opened. (PCC §§ 10341
       and 10344.)

5.04 • PRELIMINARY CONSIDERATIONS AND DECISIONS
        (Renumbered and revised 11/12)
Many of the questions and decisions needed to establish a sound basis for a final contract must
be addressed by the contract users. They are the individuals most concerned with both quality
and usability of what will be produced under the contract. They are the individuals best equipped
to ask and to answer the main questions about the performance leading to the final service or
product that prompts the need for the contract.



                                                 53
     Primary Contracting Considerations:
              1.      What type of service is needed and why and when is it needed?
              2.      Can services be provided within the agency?
              3.      Can another State agency provide the service through an Interagency Agreement?
                      (If agency staff cannot provide the services, a justification consistent with GC §
                      19130 is required.)
              4.      If an outside contractor is to be used, how will the contractor be obtained? Will it
                      be necessary to competitively bid, or does one of the exemptions to bidding apply?
              5.      What type of contract is involved? Goods, IT goods, IT services, IT consulting
                      services, non-IT services, non-IT consulting services?

     Note: The Scope of Work is the key to a satisfactory contract. The level of satisfaction depends on fully
     assessing and defining the contract need. The determination of a level of quality sufficient to meet the
     need and guarantee the desired outcome and identification of the capability and qualifications required
     of a contractor to accomplish the outcome will produce a successful contract


5.05 • COMPETITIVE BIDDING REQUIREMENTS AND ALTERNATIVES
          (New 11/12)
Contracts must be competitively bid using the Public Contract Code process, unless there is a
legally authorized basis for bid exemption. (PCC §10340(a).) Basic grounds for exemption include:
A.       Statutorily exempt;
B.       DGS Approved Exemptions (PCC § 10348)
         1.        Categorical Exemptions
         2.        Non-competitively bid exemption (NCB) or Special Category (SCR) approval.
See SCM I, section 5.80 for more information regarding exemptions and alternative methods for award.

5.06 • COMPARISON CHART OF BIDDING METHODS
          (Rev 6/17)
There are three basic types of services contract solicitations: Invitation for Bid, Primary Request
for Proposal, and Secondary Request for Proposal. (See PCC §§ 10340-10345.)
                                                 Table 5.1
 Considerations                Invitation for Bid              Primary RFP                Secondary RFP
When this method To obtain simple, common,             To obtain complex services     To obtain very complex
is typically used or routine services that may         in which professional          and/or unique services in
                  require personal or                  expertise is needed and        which professional
                  mechanical skills. Little            may vary. Where different      expertise and methods
                  discretion is used in                methods and approaches         may vary greatly.
                  performing the work.                 may be applied during          Creative or innovative
                                                       performance.                   approaches are needed.

                        Examples: routine pest       Examples: professional           Examples: public
                        control, equipment           services such as auditing,       relations and advertising,
                        maintenance, uniform rentals specialized data collection      complex research
                                                                                      projects

                                                       54
 Cost/value of        $5,000 or more                $5,000 or more                 $5,000 or more
 services
 CSCR advertising     Yes                            Yes                           Yes
 Formal bidder        Optional                       Optional                      Optional
 Q&As with
 submittal
 deadline
 Bidders'             Optional, but bidders’         Optional. Held if needed to   Optional. Held if needed
 conference or site   conference is rarely needed    clarify service needs.        to clarify service needs.
 inspection           for an IFB.
 How award is         Lowest responsible bidder: Lowest qualified                  Highest-scored
 made                 public bid opening         responsible proposer;             responsible proposer
                                                 public bid opening
 Oral Interviews  Not applicable.                Optional. Held if needed.          Optional. Held if needed.
 What information Bid form and other material Narrative proposal and a             Narrative proposal,
 is submitted     deemed necessary by the        separate envelope                  including a cost
                  awarding agency.               containing cost                    component, in one
                                                 information.                       envelope
 Statement of     SOW contains all contract      Objectives, major tasks,          Goals and objectives are
 Work (SOW)       requirements except price.     and timelines are                  stated. Proposer offers
 considerations                                  identified. Proposer offers        detailed work plans,
                                                 detailed work plans,               approaches, methods,
                                                 methods, etc.                      etc.
 How small        The cost bid of a certified     The bid of a certified small      Certified small business
 business         small business is reduced for business is reduced for             will have its points
 preference is    evaluation purposes by 5 % evaluation purposes by 5               increased by 5% of the
 applied          of the lowest cost bid offered % of the lowest cost               total points awarded to
                  by a noncertified small         offered by a noncertified         the highest scored non-
                  business.                       small business.                   small business bidder.
 Is TACPA         If the total contract is more   If the total contract is more     If the total contract is
 applied?         than $100,000 and the work than $100,000 and the                  more than $100,000 the
                  site is not fixed.              work site is not fixed.           work site is not fixed.
 DVBE             Determined by Agency            Determined by Agency             Determined by Agency
 participation
 required?


5.07 • DIFFERENCES BETWEEN IFBs AND PRIMARY RFPs
        (Rev 1/18)
The general differences are indicated in Table 5.2. To easily distinguish the two methods, different
terminology is used. Generally, in IFBs the terms Bid and Bidder are used, and in RFPs the terms
Proposal and Proposer are used, although the PCC uses them interchangeably.
                                                 Table 5.2

                  Invitation for Bid                              Primary Request for Proposal
  Bidders may need to certify only that they meet        Narrative proposals containing varying amounts
  the IFB requirements. Bidders acknowledge that         of proposer information are usually required to be
  they meet the IFB requirements.                        submitted.



                                                    55
  Sealed bids or price quotes are submitted. A            Sealed cost proposals are submitted in separate
  single-envelope or two-envelope process may be          envelopes from the narrative proposals.
  used.
  A pass/fail determination is made for                   Proposals are reviewed for responsiveness to
  responsiveness to IFB requirements. This can be         RFP format requirements. Proposals may be
  accomplished after bids are opened and read             rated or scored. Cost/price offerings of qualified
  aloud.                                                  proposers are opened and read aloud for
                                                          responsible proposers.
  Bidders' conferences are optional but are rarely        Bidders' conferences are optional but are often
  needed.                                                 held to clarify the services being sought.

  To obtain services valued at $10,000 or more.           Same as for IFB.

  IFBs are used to secure simple services calling for     RFPs secure complex services calling for
  routine personal or mechanical skills. Work             technical and/or professional skills and expertise.
  methods are standard, or little discretion exists in    The proposer uses discretion in applying various
  terms of how the work is performed.                     approaches or methods.

  Bidder capabilities are not rated or scored.            Proposer qualifications, capability, and
  Bidders either pass or fail IFB requirements.           experience may be scored on evaluation criteria
                                                          stated in the RFP.
  The statement of work (SOW) is clearly stated.          The SOW contains as much detail/depth as
  Bidders are generally told what, how, when, and         possible but may include an agency’s needs,
  where work and services are to be done.                 goals, and objectives. Proposers are relied on to
                                                          recommend methods or approaches to meet an
                                                          agency’s needs.
  Award is made to the lowest responsible bidder.         Same as for IFB.


5.08 • PRIMARY RFP AND SECONDARY RFP DIFFERENCES
       (Rev 6/17)
Table 5.3 outlines the differences between primary and secondary RFPs.
                                               Table 5.3

                      Primary RFP                                            Secondary RFP
 Services are complex, but not uncommon or unique.           Services are complex, uncommon, or unique.
 Examples: Complex data collection, auditing                 Examples: Public relations and advertising,
                                                             complex research and consulting

 Performance requires varying methods or approaches          Performance requires unusual, innovative, or
 but not innovation or creativity.                           creative techniques, methods and
                                                             approaches.
 The methods and approaches used may not differ
 significantly from one proposer to another, which           The quality of expertise and approaches,
 allows costs to be used as the deciding factor for          methods, and innovation used may differ
 making the award.                                           significantly from one proposer to another.




                                                     56
  The statement of work (SOW) is fairly well defined in       The SOW is less precisely defined and may
  terms of services or functions that must be performed,      contain only the agency’s business needs,
  as are the time frames that are required.                   goals or objectives that must be met.

  Costs proposals are submitted in a separate sealed          Price may appear as a section within the
  envelope apart from the narrative proposal.                 narrative proposal and must be a significant
                                                              factor. Price does not mean cost
                                                              effectiveness.

  Narrative proposals are reviewed, evaluated, and            Narrative proposals are evaluated and
  scored for compliance with format, content, and             scored. Oral interviews are optional.
  qualification requirements.                                 Passing points may be set to determine the
                                                              finalists.
  Cost proposals are not scored.                              The cost component is either scored against
                                                              criteria stated in the RFP or subjected to a
                                                              formula to convert the quoted cost into score
                                                              or point values.
  Qualified proposals that are responsive to the RFP          Cost proposals are not announced or publicly
  requirements will have their cost/price proposals           read.
  publicly opened and read.

  Following the opening and reading of cost proposals,        Cost proposals are adjusted for applicable
  cost proposals are then adjusted for applicable small       small business, TACPA, and DVBE
  business, TACPA, and DVBE Incentives.                       Incentives.
  A certified small business receives an amount equal to      A certified small business will have its total
  5 % of the lowest cost proposal submitted by a non-         points increased by 5% of the total points
  certified small business reduced from its cost proposal.    awarded to the highest scored non-small
                                                              business bidder.

  Award is to the responsible proposer offering the           Award is to the responsible proposer earning
  lowest cost for its services.                               the highest overall score.

5.09 • RESERVED (Rev 11/12)
[Former content of 5.09 has been merged into 5.30.]

5.10 · RESERVED (Rev 11/12)
[Former content of 5.10 was moved to 5.70.]


5.11 • INVITATION FOR BIDS (Rev 11/12)


   A.      An Invitation for Bids (IFB) must be exact and clear to ensure that all bids received will be
           competitive as the result of all bidders bidding on exactly the same work or equipment,
           specifications, and contract obligations.
           An IFB seeks an answer to the following:
           “Here is exactly what we need to have done. Here are the qualification requirements,
           performance specifications, time frames, and requirements that must be met. How much
           will you charge us?”
                                                      57
B.   An IFB must indicate the specific requirements of the State. Timely bids are reviewed to
     determine which bidders meet the requirements indicated in the IFB.
     For each specific requirement, a basic yes or no answer is required. There is no “fully,”
     ”barely,” “almost,” or “exceeded” level of evaluation. After identifying which bidders are
     responsive to all requirements stated in the IFB, it is then a matter of determining which
     bidder is offering the lowest cost for its services.
C.   All bids may be rejected whenever the agency determines that the cost is not reasonable,
     the cost exceeds the amount estimated, or otherwise in the best interest of the State.
     Although many agencies reserve the right to reject all bids, no bid may be rejected
     arbitrarily or without reasonable cause.

5.15 • REQUEST FOR PROPOSALS
     (Rev 10/05)
A.   A Request for Proposals (RFP) must be as precise as possible to ensure that all proposals
     are accomplishing the same goal. An objective evaluation procedure must be used to
     determine which proposers have complied with the RFP requirements and to whom the
     contract should be awarded.
B.   An RFP seeks an answer to the following:
     “Here is what we wish to accomplish. Here are the qualification requirements,
     performance specifications, time frames, and other requirements that must be met. How
     would you accomplish the job for us and for how much?”
C.   An RFP should not be used when the service or equipment to be hired is standard,
     routine, or common, or when there is a standard associated with the service or equipment
     to be hired. For example, the hiring of a pest-control firm to do routine exterminations
     should be accomplished through an IFB, not an RFP.
D.   There are two (2) methods for evaluating proposals and awarding contracts (PCC §
     10344):
     1.     Primary Method: By this method, the contract is awarded to the responsible and
            qualified proposer offering the lowest cost for its services. For more information on
            the primary RFP method, see SCM I, section 5.20.
     2.     Secondary Method: This method requires evaluation of proposals by an evaluation
            committee with the award made to the responsible proposer earning the highest
            score. For more information on the secondary RFP method, see SCM 1, section
            5.25.
E.   Before soliciting proposals, agencies must determine which method of evaluation will be
     used in order to include the appropriate information in the RFP, as follows:
     1.     A comprehensive evaluation plan must be developed and finalized. All rating and
            scoring factors which are to be considered must be included, criteria for
            considering costs to the State must be developed, and the evaluation plan must
            provide for a fair and equitable evaluation of all proposals (PCC § 10344).
     2.     All proposals and all evaluation and scoring sheets must be available for public
            inspection at the conclusion of the scoring process (PCC § 10342).
F.   When an evaluation committee is appointed:
     1.     The voting members used in the selection process shall be from the agency
            soliciting the proposals or awarding the contract.


                                              58
       2.     Private consultants may not be voting members of the committee and may only be
              used to provide clarification or subject matter expertise to the committee members.
       3.     If the contract is awarded by a State board or commission, the recommendations
              of an evaluation committee shall be considered advisory in nature, and the board
              or commission must make the ultimate decision unless statute expressly permits
              the board or commission to delegate that responsibility.

5.20 • REQUEST FOR PROPOSALS: PRIMARY METHOD
        (Rev 3/03)
A.     In addition to the requirements identified elsewhere in this chapter, an RFP primary must
       include a requirement that each proposer submit its proposal with the cost proposal and all
       cost information in a separate, sealed envelope (PCC § 10344).
B.     Proposals received as a result of the primary RFP method must be evaluated and the
       contract awarded in the following manner:
       1.     Review all eligible proposals (i.e., those filed on time and in the manner prescribed)
              to determine which ones meet the format requirements and the standards
              specified in the RFP. Proposals meeting the minimum standards and format
              requirements can then be rated or scored. Proposal standards should be set so
              that every proposer deemed to meet the standards specified in the RFP could
              perform at the required level.
       2.     The sealed envelopes containing the cost proposal for those proposals that meet
              the format requirements and standards shall then be publicly opened and read.
              The contract must be awarded to the lowest-cost responsible proposer.

5.25 • REQUEST FOR PROPOSALS: SECONDARY METHOD (POINT
       COUNT OR HIGH SCORE)
        (Rev 11/12)
A.     Use of the secondary RFP method should be limited to those instances in which
       agencies are seeking a unique solution to a problem or situation that cannot necessarily
       be resolved by the lowest bidder (i.e., when the methods, approaches, and procedures
       to be used in performing the work are of primary importance).
B.     When scoring a proposal, cost/value effectiveness and cost adequacy may be judged,
       evaluated and awarded points as part of the technical score, but this must be in addition
       to the cost points (PCC § 10344). Agencies should discuss the RFP with their assigned
       DGS/OLS attorney if considering developing a solicitation where cost points
       (dollars/actual price component) are less than 30% of the total points, or risk non-
       approval of the resulting contract.
The following formula may be used for the award of cost points:
Lowest cost proposal is awarded the maximum cost points. Other proposals are awarded cost
points based on the following calculation:
Lowest Proposer’s Cost = (factor) X maximum cost points = cost points for other proposer

Other Proposer’s Cost

       EXAMPLE: Lowest cost proposal = $ 75,000
                 Other proposal =       $100,000
                                        30 cost points available

                                               59
           (Lowest cost proposal) $75,000 = ¾ X 30 = 22.5 cost points awarded to
                                   $100,000                  other proposal
C.   Proposals received as a result of the secondary RFP method must be evaluated and the
     contract awarded in the following manner (PCC § 10344):
     1.     Review all eligible proposals (i.e., those that are received in the time and manner
            prescribed) to determine which ones meet the format requirements specified in the
            RFP.
     2.     Those proposals that meet the format requirements shall then be submitted to an
            agency evaluation committee. The evaluation committee will evaluate and score
            proposals using the methods specified in the RFP. The contract must be awarded
            to the responsible proposer whose proposal is given the highest score by an
            evaluation committee.

5.30 • REQUIRED LANGUAGE IN COMPETITIVE BIDDING DOCUMENTS
     (Rev 6/17)
A.   All competitive bid proposal packages (IFBs and RFPs) shall contain (as applicable):
     1.     Date, time, and place bids are due (PCC §§ 10341, and 10344)
     2.     Small Business Preference Program information (GC § 14835) (SCM 1, chapter 8)
     3.     DVBE participation goals (PCC § 10115 et seq.) (SCM 1, chapter 8)
            Each State agency is required to have DVBE participation goals in contracts for
            construction, professional services, materials, supplies, equipment, alteration,
            repair, or improvement (PCC § 10115 et seq.) except those services subject to
            Chapter 6 commencing with GC § 16850. Participation goals apply to the overall
            dollar amount expended each year by the awarding agency. Each agency is
            allowed to determine the dollar level and types of contracts that are subject to or
            exempt from DVBE goal participation. If the contract is of a type or total dollar
            amount subject to DVBE participation in accord with departmental procedures or
            regulations, the bid document used to procure such services, should contain
            applicable DVBE participation instructions and forms and DVBE audit language.
            For information on DVBE participation goals, refer to applicable State agency
            policies, procedures, or regulations or the statutes on this topic. (See SCM 1,
            chapter 8.)
     4.     DVBE Incentive or Documentation of Incentive Exemption (GC §§ 14600, 14615; 2
            CCR § 1896.99.100) (SCM 1, chapter 8).
     5.     Conflict of Interest provisions (PCC §§ 10410, 10411); these provisions are now in
            the CCCs, available on the DGS/OLS website.
     6.     Corporate qualifications to do business in California (R&TC § 23101); these
            provisions are now in the CCCs, available on the DGS/OLS website.
            a.      When contracts are to be performed in the State by corporations, the
                    contracting agencies should obtain verification that the contractor is
                    currently qualified to do business in California in order to ensure that all
                    obligations due to the State are fulfilled.
            b.      “Doing business” is defined in Revenue and Taxation Code § 23101 as
                    actively engaging in any transaction for the purpose of financial or
                    pecuniary gain or profit. Although there are some statutory exceptions to
                    taxation, rarely will a corporate contractor performing services within the
                    State not be subject to the franchise tax.

                                              60
               c.      Both domestic and foreign corporations (those incorporated outside of
                       California) must be in good standing in order to be qualified to do business
                       in California. Agencies may determine whether a corporation is in good
                       standing by accessing the Office of the Secretary of State’s web site at
                       www.sos.ca.gov.
               d.      Contracting and approving agencies may obtain assistance from the
                       Franchise Tax Board in evaluating a contractor’s claim of exemption.
                       Inquiries should be directed to the Exempt Organizations Unit desk,
                       telephone (916) 845-4171.
       7.      Drug-free requirements (GC § 8350 et seq.); these provisions are now in the GTCs
               available on the DGS/OLS website
       8.      Statement of Compliance (GC § 12990(a - f), 2 CCR § 11109); this provision is
               now in the CCCs, available on the DGS/OLS website
       9.      Antitrust claims (GC §§ 4552, 4553, and 4554); this provision is now in the GTCs,
               available on the DGS/OLS website
      10.      TACPA preference, if applicable (GC § 4530, et seq. and 2 CCR § 1896.30);
               Each IFB or RFP for goods or services, in which the cost is estimated to be in
               excess of $100,000, except when the work site is fixed by the terms of the
               contract, should contain a provision applying work site and hiring preferences, as
               applicable, to eligible California-based firms. Bidders and proposers may apply for
               such preferences by means of a Target Area Contract Preference Request - STD
               830S (for services) or STD 830G (for goods) (2 CCR § 1896 et seq., see also
               SCM 1, chapter 8). Contact DGS/Dispute Resolution/Preference Program Section
               for information on TACPA at (916) 375-4604 or (916) 375-4600.
      11.      Protest procedures (SCM 1, chapter 6);
      12.      Loss leader provisions (PCC § 10344).
      13.      Darfur Certification (PCC § 10475 et seq.)
      14.      Iran Contracting Act Certification (PCC § 2202)
      15.      Insurance requirements (see SCM 1, §§ 3.12, 7.40)
      16.      Priority Hiring Considerations for Contracts with a Value in Excess of $200,000;
               these provisions are now in the GTCs available on the DGS/OLS website.)
               Every contract for services in excess of $200,000 shall contain a provision
               requiring the contractor to give priority consideration in filling vacancies in
               positions funded by the contract to qualified recipients of aid under Welfare and
               Institutions Code § 11200 (PCC § 10353).
       17.     Civil Rights Certification PCC § 2010 (see SCM 1, § 3.33)

B.     The general terms and conditions of the contract and any unique provisions should
       be included in the bid document to inform bidders of these requirements. See also 5.35.4.

5.35 • DRAFTING AN RFP
       (Renamed 11/12)
In addition to other requirements set forth in this chapter, further consideration should be given to
effective drafting of RFPs. The more thoroughly that a State agency communicates its specific


                                                 61
needs, requirements, goals, and objectives in the RFP, the more complete, responsive, and
acceptable the proposals received will be. RFPs should include:
       1.     A statement of work that contains:
              a.      A clear, precise description of the work to be performed, services to be
                      provided, problem to be solved, or the goals and objectives to be met.
              b.      An explanation in realistic terms of what the proposer is expected to
                      accomplish including any desired approach to the problem and the specific
                      functions, tasks, or activities that must be performed, in their order of
                      importance and probable sequence.
              c.      Practical and policy information, technological requirements or
                      specifications, and legal limitations, if any.
              d.      Specific questions to be answered or issues to be addressed.
              e.      Performance timelines or completion dates.
              f.      Required quality control standards to be met, if applicable.
              g.      A description of the items, products, or results to be delivered.
              h.      The format and number of copies of the completed progress reports and
                      final report, if applicable.
              i.      The extent and nature of the assistance and cooperation from the State
                      that will be available to the proposer.
       2.     Proposal instructions should contain a description of the format that proposals
              must follow and the elements they shall contain. The factors to be used in
              proposal evaluation and contractor selection may not be changed or added after
              the RFP has been distributed without adequate notice to all potential proposers
              through an addendum. RFPs must provide:
              a.      Specifications, including:
                      •      Standards the agency will use in evaluating proposals.
                      •      Information on how the State will select the winning proposal.
              b.      Time schedules, including:
                      Date to submit questions or seek clarification of the RFP
                      •      Date of Proposers’ Conference, if applicable.
                      •      Date on which the proposals must be submitted.
                      •      Timetable the agency will follow in reviewing and evaluating
                             proposals.
                      •      Date of cost proposal opening.
                      •      Date of award.
                      •      Anticipated contract term, including commencement and completion
                             dates.
       3.     Notice of payment terms or restrictions, including:
              a.      Whether and to what extent progress payments will be allowed.
              b.      Whether payments are subject to payment withholds.
              c.      Penalties for late or inadequate performance.
              d.      Known or estimated budgetary limitations on the contract price, if
                      applicable.

                                                   62
4.   Applicable contract provisions, including:
     a.     Actual or sample contract language or boilerplate contract provisions that
            will appear in the resulting contract.
     b.     It is important to include any terms or provisions that will place a contingent
            liability on the contractor or affect the contractor's operating costs.
5.   Requirements those prospective proposers must address or include in their
     proposal, if applicable, such as the following:
     a.     A description of the proposer's qualifications, including:
            •   Proof that the proposer, if a corporation, is in good standing and
                qualified to conduct business in California.
            •   For proposers that are nonprofit organizations, proof of nonprofit status.
            •   Copies of current business licenses, professional certifications, or other
                credentials.
            •   Proof of financial solvency or stability (e.g., balance sheets and income
                statements for one year or more), as deemed applicable.
            •   A list of current or former references for whom the proposer has
                performed similar work.
     b.     A brief list of similar types of contracts that were successfully concluded,
            with a sample of such work.
     c.     A description of the lead personnel and anticipated supporting personnel to
            be employed during performance (by classification or title) and their
            qualifications to perform the work.
     d.     Identification of a project coordinator (recommended for all bid documents
            but required when consultants are sought).
     e.     Résumés for each major contract participant who will exercise a major
            policy, administrative, or consultative role in carrying out the services
            (required by law for consultant contracts).
     f.     An overall description of the techniques, approaches, and methods to be
            used in performing the services. For cost reimbursement contracts with
            consultants, the amount of time and manpower to be expended and the
            equipment and facilities to be utilized, if applicable.
     g.     If subcontractors are contemplated, identification of those persons or firms,
            the portions and monetary percentages of the work to be done by the
            subcontractors how they were selected and why, résumés of each major
            subcontract participant, and a description of how subcontracted work will
            be controlled, monitored, and evaluated
     h.     The total cost of the project, with a detailed breakdown showing how the
            costs were determined, and the desired method of payment. The detailed
            budget breakdown may include:
            •   Identification of position/classification titles funded.
            •   Salary rates or ranges.
            •   Percentage of time devoted to the work.
            •   Fringe benefits.
            •   Operating expenses.
            •   Travel and per diem expenses.
            •   Overhead or indirect costs.


                                       63
                       •   Subcontractors with the same type of cost details.
                       •   Other costs.
       6.      Identification of services provided on a flat fee, lump sum, or unit rate basis.

5.40 • GUIDELINES FOR CRITERIA AND CONSIDERATIONS IN
       EVALUATING RFPs
       The following are suggested criteria that may be used in evaluating proposals:
       1.      Does the proposing firm understand the agency's problem or needs?
       2.      Can the proposer fit this work into its existing obligations?
       3.      Is the approach to the problem, recommended method, and procedure reasonable
               and feasible?
       4.      Do the expected results, outcomes, and deliverables appear to be achievable in a
               timely manner, given the approaches, methods and procedures proposed?
       5.      Does the firm have the organization, management capability and competency, fiscal
               and personnel resources, and experience to perform the services being sought?
       6.      Has the firm had experience performing work of a similar nature, size, and scope?
       7.      Does the proposer's past experience complement the services being sought, or is the
               proposer’s past experience appropriate to qualify the proposer to perform these services?
       8.      What are the professional qualifications of the personnel that the firm will commit
               to the project?
       9.      Has the proposer allocated sufficient staff resources?
      10.      Has the proposer addressed all goals, objectives, service demands, and required
               deliverables specified in the RFP?
      11.      Does the proposer appear to be capable of handling and resolving unanticipated
               complications and delays without interrupting the delivery of services?
      12.      Are any proposed timelines for performance presented by the proposer feasible?
      13.      Did the proposer include plans that will show how performance will be monitored
               and measured to ensure that all services are successfully performed and that the
               objectives, goals, and requirements are met?
      14.      Does the proposer appear to have the capacity to manage fiscal resources
               responsibly?
      15.      Does the proposer have sound fiscal, accounting and cost-monitoring or budget-
               monitoring procedures in place?

5.45 • TIE BIDS
         (Rev 11/12)
Agencies should provide for a tiebreaker in the solicitation document setting forth how the contract
award will be made in the event of a tie. An example of permissible tiebreaker is a coin toss.
Such event must be observed by witnesses and ideally the affected bidders would be invited. See
SCM 1, section 8.21.C for ties between certified small businesses and DVBEs.




                                                 64
5.60 • TIME FOR COMPLETION OF THE COMPETITIVE BIDDING
        PROCESS
      (Rev 11/12)
A.   The bidding process often takes three to eight months from the time the advertisement is
     placed until the award is made. Resolution of protests may add a delay of one to three
     months.
B.   The time needed to complete a bid proposal process will depend on the type of
     competitive bidding method used, the complexity of the services required, the number of
     bids or proposals received, whether a bidders'/proposers' conference is held, whether
     DVBE participation is required, whether protests are received, and other factors.

5.65 • POSTING AND NOTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS
     (Rev 4/15)
A.   RFP. After selecting a bidder for possible contract award under an RFP (Primary or
     Secondary):
     1.     The agency must post, in an area accessible to the public, a letter of intent to
            award (PCC § 10345).
     Note: Agencies may post the letter of intent on their Internet Homepage in addition to, but
     not in lieu of, the public posting.
     2.     The contract cannot be awarded for a period of 5 working days (starting the day
            after posting), during which time the agency must allow all bidders access to all the
            bid information including all responses and score sheets used in the evaluation
            (PCC § 10345).
B.   IFB. After selecting a bidder for possible contract award under an IFB:
     1.     The agency must post, in an area accessible to the public, including any Internet
            site identified in the IFB, for at least 5 working days prior to awarding the contract,
            a letter of intent to award if requested in writing by any bidder who has submitted a
            bid (PCC § 10345(a)(1)).
     2.     If the lowest bidder is not being awarded the contract, the low bidder must be
            notified of that fact 5 working days prior to contract award. The notice should
            also include the reason why the lowest bidder is not being awarded the contact.
     3.     If the agency is awarding to the lowest responsible bidder, and no requests have
            been made to publicly post a letter of intent, the agency may award the contract
            without delay.

5.70 • COMPETITIVE BIDDING ISSUES
      (Rev 6/17)
A.   Advertising. Potential bidders must be formally notified of the bid opportunity through
     CSCR advertisement, unless an advertising exemption (approved Std 821) has been
     received. (Govt. Code § 14827.2.)
B.   Less than three bids. If three (3) competitive bids are not received, the State agency will
     prepare a complete explanation as to why less than three (3) competitive bids were
     received; provide a justification as to the reasonableness of the price; provide the names
     and addresses of the firms, or individuals specifically notified of the contracting
     opportunity; and retain this document in the agency’s contract file (PCC § 10340).


                                              65
C.   Preferences for certified small businesses, microbusinesses and non-small businesses
     subcontracting preference. There are preferences to be applied to eligible certified small
     businesses, microbusinesses and non-small businesses, which subcontract with at least
     25% certified small businesses (See SCM 1, sections 8.20 and 8.21). Additional
     preferences under TACPA shall be granted as applicable when cost of the service will
     exceed $100,000 and the work site will not be fixed by the terms of the contract.
     Exceptions for IT services, architectural and engineering services and situations involving
     multiple contract awards are noted in the cited regulations. Additional information on
     TACPA can be obtained from the DGS Dispute Resolution/Preference Program section
     (See 2 CCR § 1896 et seq. and SCM 1, chapter 8).
D.   DVBE Participation Requirements and Incentive (See SCM 1, chapter 8).
E.   There is no requirement to award a contract if, in the opinion of the State agency, no bids
     or proposals were received containing a reasonable contract price or if there is another
     business-based reason not to make an award.

5.75 • ADVERTISING STATE-CONTRACTING OPPORTUNITIES
      (Rev 1/18)
A.   Contracts of $10,000 or more must be advertised in the CSCR for at least 10 working
     days, unless exempt from bidding. Agencies cannot release solicitations prior to
     publication in the CSCR. Contracts awarded as an NCB and amendments that require
     an NCB approval, will be published in the CSCR by DGS/PD as part of the NCB approval
     process. No agency action is required to publish the NCB approval.
     (GC §§ 14827.1 -14827.3; PCC § 10335(a).)
B.   CSCR advertising procedures are as follows:
     1.     Advertising in the CSCR is now done through the DGS eProcurement system.
            Agencies should submit advertisements using the DGS Procurement Division’s
            Internet Web page: http://www.dgs.ca.gov/pd/Programs/eprocurement.aspx.
            Agencies may contact CSCR eProcurement help desk at (916) 375-2000 or
            eprocure@dgs.ca.gov for additional information.
     2.     DGS charges a fee for each ad that appears in the CSCR.
C.   Under appropriate circumstances, agencies may obtain an exemption from advertising.
     This is done on a STD 821 submitted to DGS/Procurement Division. An exemption from
     advertising eliminates the CSCR advertising requirement only; it is not an exemption
     from bidding. If DGS/Procurement Division approves a form STD 821 for an advertising
     exemption, DGS will publish a notice of exemption in the CSCR.
D.   Re-bids: Agencies conducting a re-bid need not obtain an approved Exemption from
     Advertising or re-advertise the contract opportunity in the CSCR, if:
     1.     The re-bid occurs within three (3) months of the publication of the original CSCR
            advertisement;
     2.     Notice of rebid is provided to persons who are a UNSPSC match in
            eProcurement in addition to anyone who otherwise notified the contracting
            agency of their interest in the original solicitation; and
     3.     No material change to the solicitation.




                                              66
5.80 • CONTRACTS EXEMPT FROM ADVERTISING IN THE CSCR AND
       COMPETITIVE BIDDING
        (Rev 1/18)
As noted in section 5.05, competitive bidding is required unless there is a legally authorized
basis for bid exemption. Key exemption categories are identified below.
A.     Statutory Exemptions
       1.      Contracts of less than $5,000 (PCC §§ 10335(a), 10335.5(c)(5)).
       2.      Contracts of less than $5,000 where only per diem or travel expenses, or a
               combination thereof, are to be paid (PCC § 10335(a)).
       3.      Emergency contracts. The work or service is for the immediate preservation of
               the public health, welfare, safety, or protection of State property (PCC §§ 1102,
               10340).
       4.      Interagency agreements. Contracts with other California State agencies, and
               California State University and University of California campuses (PCC §§
               10335(a), 10340(b)(3); GC § 11256; see also SCM 1, section 3.03.).
       5.      Contracts with other public entities, including contracts with another state, local, or
               Federal agency; a state agency, state college, or state university of another state;
               a local government entity of another state; auxiliaries of CSU or the California
               community colleges; or an organization acting as a governmental agency under a
               joint powers agreement (PCC §§ 10335(a), 10340(b)(3); see also SCM 1, section
               3.06.A).
       6.      Contracts solely for the purpose of obtaining expert witnesses for litigation (PCC §
               10335.5(c)(3).
       7.      Contracts for legal defense, legal advice, or legal services by an attorney or the
               attorney’s staff (PCC §10335.5(c)(4)).
       8.      Community Based Rehabilitation Program (CRP). Contracts with business entities
               operating Community Based Rehabilitation Program (CRP), that are justified under
               one of the exceptions in GC § 19130(b), and that meet the criteria established by
               Welfare and Institutions Code §1 9404 (PCC §10340). Note: Contracts with CRPs
               that are justified under GC § 19130(a) are required to be competitively bid.
       9.      Small Business/DVBE Option (GC §§ 14838.5; PCC §§ 10335.5(c)(6),
               10340(b)(6)).
               a.      This option allows for an award under the following conditions:
                       1)      The contract is awarded to a certified small business, micro-
                               business or disabled veteran-owned business;
                       2)      The contract award is greater than $5,000 and less than
                               $250,000; and
                       3)      Quotes were received from at least two certified small businesses
                               or micro-businesses; or two certified disabled veteran-owned
                               businesses.
               b.      An award based on receiving only one quote is not permitted under this
                       method.


                                                 67
            c.     Mixing quotes (e.g. one SB and one DVBE) is not permitted under this method.
            d.     The code does not expressly require award to the low quote, however, if
                   award will be made by other than low quote, the agency must document
                   the business reasons and cost reasonableness basis for selecting the
                   other quote.
            e.     No particular format or timing is required under this option. Agencies
                   have discretion as to how to obtain the quotes. Agencies should provide
                   vendors sufficient information about the services on which the vendors
                   can formulate a quote, including copy of the proposed contract (e.g.
                   scope, payment provisions, and terms).
            f.     The small business preference is not applicable under this method.
            g.     There is no protest right for this method. (GC § 14838.5.) Therefore
                   agencies should not cite protest provisions when soliciting quotes.
            h.     Use of this method is capped at $250,000 for the entire contract term,
                   including any option years and/or amendments. If an agency believes
                   the contract may exceed $250,000, they should use a different solicitation
                   method, such as an IFB or RFP. If quotes come in over $250,000, the
                   agency would need to resolicit, either scaling down the project to lower
                   the quotes or using a different solicitation method.
            i.     For public works, the dollar range for which this two-quote method can be
                   used is $5,000 to $291,000 (or other project cost limit amount as may
                   periodically be issued by the Director of Finance pursuant to PCC §
                   10105). (GC § 14838.7.)
     10.    Contracts for the development, maintenance, administration, or use of licensing
            or proficiency testing examinations (PCC § 10340(b)(7)).
     11.    Other Specific Statutory Exemption. The STD 215 should identify the statutory
            citation supporting the exemption.
B.   DGS Approved Exemptions (PCC § 10348)
     The State is committed to promoting fair and open competition whenever it is required or
     otherwise feasible. There are, however, circumstances under which a department may
     award a contract or amendment to a vendor on a non-competitive basis even though there
     is no express statutory exemption from bidding. Under Public Contract Code section
     10348, DGS is authorized to determine when an award can be made without competition.
     DGS may do so on a case-by-case basis for a department’s application (NCB/SCR) as
     described in section B.1 below, and on a pre-approved categorical basis as described in
     section B.2 below.
     1. Non-Competitive Bid (NCB) or Special Category Request (SCR)
            a.     An NCB transaction is a contract for goods or services or both when only
                   one vendor is afforded the opportunity to provide the specified goods or
                   services.
            b.     An SCR is similar to an NCB but involves a group of related contracts
                   rather than a single contract. (For example: the need for several types of
                   physician medical specialty services at a remote prison.) All SCRs have a
                   maximum authorized dollar limit and a maximum “window of approval” not
                   to exceed 3 calendar years from the date of the DGS/PD approval.


                                            68
           Departments must track all SCR transactions to ensure they remain within
           the approved limit.
     c.    NCBs/SCRs for non-IT services should be used only when a department
           can establish the circumstances necessitating a no-bid contract or
           amendment. Poor planning should not be the reason for seeking an
           NCB/SCR.
     d.    NCB/SCR application forms and instructions are located on DGS/PD’s
           website: http//www.documents.dgs.ca.gov/pd/poliproc/ncb10-413.pdf.
           When submitting an NCB/SCR request, departments should address all
           questions on the form to establish the basis for restricting the goods or
           services to one supplier (e.g., the consequences of not receiving NCB/SCR
           approval, price analysis), and obtain required signatures. Departments
           should submit NCB/SCR applications to DGS/PD for review and approval.
           A department should not execute an NCB/SCR contract or amendment
           unless and until DGS approves the NCB/SCR application.
2.   DGS Categorical Exemptions (PCC § 10348; historical references: SAM 1233, MM
     03-10).
     a.    Services contracts using a DGS LPA;
     b.    Subvention and local assistance contracts as defined in SCM 1, section
           3.17. This exception applies only when services are provided to the public
           and not specifically to a State agency;
     c.    Maintenance agreements under $250,000 per year for equipment that is
           under documented warranty, or where there is only one authorized or
           qualified representative or where there is only one distributor in the area for
           parts and services under $250,000.00 per year;
     d.    Contracts where the state is unable to compete and select a different
           contractor because a contractor has already been selected by a federal,
           state, city, county, or other regulatory entity to perform a service in a
           specific geographical area (e.g., refuse and/or sewage disposal contracts
           where there is an exclusive franchise agreement that has no exception for
           the state);
     e.    Public entertainment contracts for State-sponsored fairs and expositions;
     f.    Contracts that can only be performed by a public entity as defined in
           Unemployment Insurance Code § 605(b);
     g.    Contracts for conference or meeting facilities, including room
           accommodations for conference attendees, not to exceed $250,000;
     h.    Contracts for ambulance services (including but not limited to 911) when
           there is no competition because the contractor is designated by a local
           jurisdiction for the specific geographic region; (historical reference: MM 05-
           04.)
     i.    Contracts for emergency room hospitals, and medical groups, physicians,
           and ancillary staff providing services at emergency room hospitals, when a
           patient is transported to a designated emergency room hospital for the
           immediate preservation of life and limb and there is no competition
           because the emergency room hospital is designated by a local emergency
           medical services agency and medical staffing is designated by the hospital.

                                     69
     This exemption covers only those services provided in response to the
     emergency room transport; (historical reference: MM 05-04.)
j.   Contracts with health maintenance organizations (HMOs) through a
     cooperative agreement with the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid
     Services (CMS) to pay monthly premium payments for medical/Medicare
     eligible members, where services are essential or necessary for health and
     safety;
k.   Proprietary subscriptions, proprietary publications and/or technical manuals
     regardless of media format, up to $250,000. This includes access to pre-
     existing proprietary research data through a non-IT services contract,
     however “subscription” is not intended to include the performance of any
     personal services (such as, but not limited to, consulting, advice, research);
l.   Rental of proprietary postage meters if they are interfaced and
     intermembered with existing mailing equipment and there is only one
     authorized manufacturer’s branch or qualified dealer representative
     providing services for a manufacturer in a specified geographical area.
     This exemption applies only in circumstances where annual postage meter
     rental services are less than $100,000;
m.   Departmental memberships in professional organizations, provided it is
     solely a membership and does not include the performance of any personal
     services. Note: Memberships for represented employees are governed by
     applicable collective bargaining agreements and memberships for non-
     represented employees are governed by CalHR rules; (See SCM 1, section
     3.23.)
n.   Contracts for non-IT services training for state personnel if the cost of the
     training contract does not exceed $50,000 and the cost of multiple training
     contracts with a single contractor does not exceed $50,000 cumulatively in
     any 12-month period. (Historical reference: MM 11-05.) The exemption is
     for pre-existing training courses; it does not cover development of training
     or other personal or consulting services. Agencies shall not split contracts
     to avoid competitive bidding or other contract requirements. Agencies with
     recurring training needs should assess the cumulative amounts
     departmentally and generally should go out to bid if there are ongoing
     and/or department-wide needs.
o.   The cost paid to a publication to place a solicitation advertisement, when
     advertisement is required by law, such as public works solicitation ads in a
     local newspaper and trade paper, or an A & E solicitation ad in a
     professional society publication. (See SCM I §§ 10.20, 11.05.)
p.   Contracts valued under $10,000. These contracts may be but are not
     required to be advertised or competitively bid. State agencies may obtain
     one price quotation from a responsible supplier that provides a
     reasonable price; if, however, there is reason to believe a response from
     a single supplier is not fair and reasonable, then the state agency must
     obtain at least two price quotations from responsible suppliers. State
     agencies should retain documentation establishing how the price was
     determined to be fair and reasonable. Contracting entities should
     consider the information in SCM Volume II, Chapter 4 (Competitive
     Solicitations) Topic 2 – “How to Determine Fair and Reasonable Pricing”
     (§§ 4.C2.0 – 4.C2.2) for additional guidance. Contracting entities are
     encouraged to consider obtaining price quotes from certified Small
                               70
                      Businesses and Disabled Veteran Business Enterprises (SB/DVBE) for
                      these contracts.

5.81 • AMENDMENTS
        (New 11/12)
Competitive bidding requirements and exemptions should be evaluated when contemplating an
amendment (PCC § 10335).
A.     Amendments to competitively bid contracts. A competitively bid contract can only be
       amended without NCB approval under the following circumstances:
       1.     The contract provides for the particular type of amendment (not merely a generic
              statement about the parties being able to amend) and:
              a.      The additional years or additional tasks were anticipated and evaluated in
                      the IFB/RFP (i.e. exercise of an option to renew that was included in the
                      IFB/RFP); or
              b.      The amendment does one, but not both, of the following, and there is no
                      change in the scope of work:
                      i)     Adds time only to complete performance, not to exceed one year.
                             Note: “time only” means time to complete performance of the
                             original agreement, such as extending the due date for a final report
                             on a fixed-fee agreement. An amendment that provides for
                             additional as-needed services (such as extended use of hourly fee
                             or pay-per-service type arrangements) is not “time only” within the
                             meaning of this exemption; or
                      ii)    The amendment adds not more than 30% (not to exceed
                             $250,000) of the original contract. Note: this increase must be
                             supported by specific business reason, such as in a unit rate
                             contracts (e.g. per test, per sample, etc.) usage was higher than the
                             original good-faith estimates/multipliers used in the solicitation. This
                             permits flexibility when exceptional unanticipated circumstances
                             warrant; but it should not be used in circumstances such as paying
                             a contractor more on a fixed fee bid, and should not be standard
                             operating procedure.
       This time-or-money amendment exemption can only be used once. Further amendments
       would require NCB approval or a new bid for services. For example, a department cannot
       amend for time, then attempt to amend to add money.
       2.     Amendments to existing contracts under the same terms and the same or lower
              rates where a protest or other legal action delays the award of a new contract.
              These amendments should only last during the period the protest or legal action is
              pending until a new contract can be executed, but in no case shall the amendment
              extend beyond six (6) months.
       3.     Amendments to an existing contract to correct incidental errors such as: State’s
              clerical error in transposition of numbers from bid response to contract,
              typographical errors in a contract number, name, or address, or change in or
              omission of a contact name or phone number.
B.     Amendments to statutorily exempt contracts. Determine if the statute supporting the
       original award also supports exemption of the amendment.


                                               71
C.     Amendments to NCB contracts. Generally an amendment to an NCB contract will require
       a new NCB. An NCB contract can only be amended if the amendment is within scope of
       the original NCB application and approval (e.g. amount, term, scope of work, reason for
       not bidding, etc.). If the amendment changes information originally described in the NCB,
       or is based on grounds other than those described in the original NCB, a new NCB
       approval is needed for the amendment. As a general rule: “Once an NCB, always an
       NCB.” Thus, for example, if an agreement or amendment is awarded by NCB, agencies
       cannot then add additional time or money using 5.81.A.1.

5.85 • MULTIPLE AWARDS
        (Rev 11/12)
Most agencies do not have statutory authority to make master contract/multi-vendor type
awards. In certain limited circumstances, agencies may develop multi-vendor awards, provided
the awards still follow the PCC methodology (i.e. IFB or primary RFP award to low cost bidder or
secondary RFP award to high point count proposal).
For example, if services are needed in several regions, an agency might develop a consolidated
solicitation to award multiple contracts, one per region. Alternatively, in unique circumstances
such as for essential services where a back-up contractor is needed, an agency might develop a
solicitation to award a primary and secondary contract, with work going primarily to the first
ranked contractor, and only then to the back-up vendor(s) in order of next-best cost/score
rankings, under specified conditions.
Absent express statutory authority, departments cannot award to a list of vendors and then
assign work through informal quotes or other rotational process. All work must be directed to 1st
rank
(IFB low bid or RFP Secondary high point) vendor, before moving to 2nd ranked.
The solicitation must identify the number of awards to be made, how awardees will be selected,
and how work will be distributed (e.g. by region or by low bid or high point count ranking). Any
agency wishing to explore these options due to exceptional circumstances requiring backup
ranked contractors should first consult their assigned DGS/OLS attorney.




5.90 • CONTRACTS UNDER TEN-THOUSAND DOLLARS – PRICE
      QUOTATION(S)
        (Rev 1/18)
Contracts under $10,000 are not required to be advertised or competitively bid. State
agencies may obtain one price quotation from a responsible supplier that provides a
reasonable price; if, however, there is reason to believe a response from the single supplier
is not fair and reasonable, then the state agency must obtain at least two price quotations
from responsible suppliers. State agencies should retain documentation establishing how
the price was determined to be fair and reasonable. (Gov. Code, § 14827.3; Pub. Contract
Code, § 10348.) Contracting entities should consider the information in SCM Volume II,
Chapter 4 (Competitive Solicitations) Topic 2 – “How to Determine Fair and Reasonable
Pricing” (§§ 4.C2.0 – 4C2.2) for additional guidance. Contracting entities are encouraged to
consider obtaining price quotes from certified Small Businesses and Disabled Veteran
Business Enterprises (SB/DVBE) for these contracts.




                                               72
