                                CITY OF RICHLAND HILLS, TEXAS



                      REQUEST FOR PROPOSAL
             INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY SUPPORT SERVICES
Proposals will be received by the City of Richland Hills for Information Technology Support
Services. Interested vendors should submit one original and 6 copies of their proposal
response documentation in an envelope marked as follows:

 IT SUPPORT SERVICES BID: DO NOT OPEN UNTIL SEPTEMBER 3RD AT 10:00 A.M.

Please submit bids to:

                         Eric Strong, City Manager
                         City of Richland Hills
                         3200 Diana Drive
                         Richland Hills, Texas 76118


Formal proposals must be received by Wednesday, September 3rd at 10:00 a.m., at
which time bids will be publically opened and read aloud.

Vendors are required to provide as much detail as possible in this proposal, regarding
scope of services, approach to protecting and securing the technology used by City users,
and their capability and experience. The City will utilize evaluation and selection criteria to
determine an acceptable vendor. The City reserves the right to reject any or all proposals or
to accept any proposal considered most advantageous, regardless of price.

Copies of the Request for Proposal are available electronically at www.richlandhills.com.
Proposals will be public information after bids are opened. Please direct all inquiries to
Charles Fletcher at 817-616-3796 or cfletcher@richlandhills.com. Inquiries will be posted
to the City of Richland Hills website (inquirers will not be identified, only the questions), with
the associated answer. All vendors assume the sole responsibility for monitoring the
website for questions and answers. The city bears no responsibility for vendors not
receiving current information due to neglecting to check the current status of the proposal
on the city website. Any changes or clarifications to the Request for Proposal will be
posted exclusively on the city website.


                                                                  2014 Richland Hills RFP IT Services
                       REQUEST FOR PROPOSAL
              INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY SUPPORT SERVICES

1. INTRODUCTION
The City of Richland Hills is requesting proposals from qualified, professional technology vendors for
Information Technology Support Services. The qualified vendor would provide necessary technical
services, which would enable the City to:

       Protect and secure its technology facilities
       Ensure the efficient operation of its data processing networks and related computer systems in its
        defined user community
       Enhance its quality of service for departments defined in the enclosed schedules
       Minimize the spending and maximize the ROI for investment in technology

The ideal vendor will resolve computer systems and network issues in accordance with standard and
acceptable maintenance and support benchmarks. The successful vendor will be expected to organize
HELP DESK service calls efficiently and to ensure that there is NO significant computer downtime during
normal working hours, generally 7:30AM to 5:30PM, Monday through Friday, in addition to 24 hour
operations for Public Safety. The vendor is expected to report on status of technology issues and
communicate effectively with City departments.

2. BACKGROUND INFORMATION
The City of Richland Hills does NOT have an IT Department and is currently using an outside vendor
service to provide maintenance and support on an as needed basis for employees.

There are 12 Microsoft Windows servers being utilized throughout the City’s departmental
infra-structure. These servers use a variety of software, and are both physical and virtual. They
have various memory and hard drive sizing. Other detailed information about the specifications is
available for review, as necessary.

There are approximately 80 PC’s in the departmental areas to be covered under the service and support
agreement with the successful vendor. These PC’s are located throughout nine different buildings, eight
of which are on a centralized campus. The addresses and locations are available upon request. These
PC’s vary by manufacturer, aging, specifications, software, and service pack versions. Windows 7
Professional is the prevalent operating system used on the workstations. The City deploys VIPRE as its
prevalent anti-virus software and uses various versions of Windows software.

The detail describing the inventory more specifically is available to all bidding parties per request.

Experience in Public Safety Systems and Criminal Justice Information Systems (CJIS) Security Policy
preferred. This experience can be noted in the response. Additionally, all IT vendors having access to
the City of Richland Hills Public Safety Servers must submit to a fingerprint and criminal history check
conducted by the Department of Public Safety in Austin.

3. SERVICES REQUIRED

This section summarizes the services to be provided to the City of Richland Hills in this RFP. The City is
looking for a maintenance and support program to be designed under two major categories. These
categories are PREVENTIVE MAINTENANCE and AS NEEDED MAINTENANCE, to accommodate
departmental computer system activities and user equipment performance. The City expects the vendor
proposal to define, in detail, the approach to be used in the above categories. Distinction of time and

                                                                          2014 Richland Hills RFP IT Services
material costs for these efforts are important to billing the City and future budget considerations.




    A. Initial Assessment
    Review of the inventory, update network diagram, assessment of the system architecture and
    equipment for efficiency, life expectancy, capacity, speed, and current processes, and make
    recommendations for improving routine support criteria and eliminating emergency maintenance
                                                                                       st
    situations. A report of this initial assessment shall be submitted by November 1 , 2014 and each
          st

    July 1 as long as the contract is in force. This is to allow for necessary budget planning for the
    upcoming year.

    B. Desktop Application Support
    Performance of basic support functions, including the installation of PC’s, laptops, mobile devices,
    printers, peripherals, and office software; diagnosis and correction of desktop application problems,
    configuring of PC’s, laptops and mobile devices for standard applications; identification and correction
    of user hardware problems, with advanced troubleshooting as needed; maintenance of an updated
    inventory of all related computer related hardware, to make available to City personnel upon request;
    and implementation of HELP Desk procedures under policy constraints of the successful vendor.

    C. Server and Workstation Administrative Services
    Management of networks and computer systems, including complex applications, databases,
    messaging, servers and associated hardware, software, communications, and operating systems,
    necessary for performance, security, reliability, and recoverability of the systems.

    Scheduling of preventive maintenance for equipment in the areas of coverage is properly and
    promptly performed; maintenance of records for all HELP Desk tickets for on-site visits, remote
    support and telephone support is available; development of operations and quality assurance for
    backup plans and procedures are being followed.

    Configuration management, including changes, upgrades, patches, etc. is maintained;
    management of user login’s and password security is documented; and support of software
    products relating to servers and workstations; timely response to repair and maintenance work for
    the user.

    D. Network Administration Services
    Maintenance and support of network equipment, including switches, firewalls, routers,
    and other security devices is included. Installation and maintenance of printers, scanners, network
    devices et al; analysis, routine configuration changes, and installation of patches and upgrades; minor
    cabling if needed; alert notifications in case of failure of equipment. Proactive monitoring of network
    equipment, including performance indicators to report on threshold limitations; network performance
    and capacity management services; continuous troubleshooting are required.

    Maintenance of network documentation for daily, weekly, and monthly services is required.

    E. Email, Security and Backup Efforts
    Maintenance of City email accounts using the City domain, adding, changing, and/or deleting City
    employee accounts as requested; maintenance of virus detection programs on the City servers and
    user computers and laptops; performance of periodic security audits, including notification of
    suspected breaches of security to the City designated person are required.

    Configuration of the City systems to enable remote access in a secure environment, with provisions
    for remote access administration, as requested by the City Designee is required.



                                                                          2014 Richland Hills RFP IT Services
    Requirements for a data backup policy, with procedures in place to handle daily, weekly, and
    monthly backup of the computer, data and information, email, and the like; program to restore
    systems and data if servers and/or computers go down, are required.

    F. Planning
    Engineering, planning, and design services for major system enhancements and/or upgrades to
    existing systems; recommendations for future purchasing and technology needs, when requested
    or necessary.

    Installation of new equipment, software, and transfer existing data when acquired, will be needed.

    G. Not Included
    The contract to be awarded does not obligate the City to purchase computer equipment, hardware
    devices, cabling, licenses, software et al from the successful vendor.


4. SUBMISSION REQUIREMENTS
The City is requesting that the proposal submitted address the subjects outlined in Section 3 herein with
specificity. The City is looking for content, organized effort, and solution-oriented procedures. The
goal is a secure, smooth operating, efficient process, and effective information technology system.

Due to the nature of this proposal, it is requested that each proposal be brief and to the point and consist
of no more than ten pages. Each proposal shall provide the following information:

Letter of Transmittal:
    The letter of transmittal must contain the following statements and information:
         Company name, address, telephone number(s), and website.
         Name, title, email address, and telephone number of the person(s) to contact and who are
             authorized to represent the firm and to whom correspondence should be directed.
         Federal and State taxpayer identification numbers of the firm.
         A brief statement of your understanding of the services to be performed and make a positive
             commitment to provide services as specified.
         The letter must be signed by a corporate officer or person authorized to bind the vendor to
             the proposal and cost schedule.
         A statement indicating that the proposal and cost schedule will be valid and binding for ninety
             (90) days following the proposal due date, and will become part of the contract negotiated
             with the City.

Profile:
            1. Provide a short profile of the firm including at a minimum:
                a) Length of time in business.
                b) Length of time in providing proposed services.
                c) Number of clients.
                d) Number of clients in the public sector.
                e) Number of full-time employees and area of involvement: Technical Support,
                Programming, Consulting, Sales Support, Administrative Support
                f) Location of office to service the account.
                g) Small, Minority-owned, and Woman-owned business, if applicable.
Proposal:

    1. Description of the approach the firm will use in providing the services requested. Description of
       how the firm is positioned to provide the services requested, with a history of experience on
       providing similar services.
    2. Name, title, address, and telephone number of three references for clients, whom similar services

                                                                         2014 Richland Hills RFP IT Services
         have been provided, including information referencing the actual services performed, number of
         users, and length of tenure. References of other Public Sector clients would be beneficial.
    3.   Naming of staff resources, with identification of principals and key personnel,
             a. who are available to provide the services (The city prefers one primary point of contact or
                   project manager);
             b. experience and expertise of staff;
             c. local availability of staff is an important consideration
             d. role and responsibilities that each staff member will have.
    4.   Support services questions to be addressed:
             a. Help Desk Description
             b. Support availability (days of week and time, including how you will deal with after hours
                   and weekend calls)
             c. Toll free number
             d. Structure of charges for support
             e. Steps for resolving problem escalation
             f. Final authority regarding conflicts
             g. Response time and goal for resolving problems
    5.   Explanation of any contract termination for default or other incident in the past five years.
         Termination for default is defined as notice to stop services for non-performance or poor
         performance, and issue was either litigated or not litigated. If default occurred, list name, address,
         and telephone number of the party. If NO such termination occurred for default, declare it. The
         City will evaluate the facts, and may, at its sole discretion, reject the vendor’s proposal.
    6.   Scope of services beyond the RFP that the firm provides which may be of interest to the City.
    7.   Proposal summary, including why the firm is pursuing the work and how it is uniquely qualified to
         perform the services.

Draft Contract Language
The vendor shall submit a draft contract.

Reports
The vendor shall submit service reports on a monthly basis, summarizing service and IT policy issues.
The Vendor must be available to meet with the City Manager or designated staff member to review
periodically scheduled reports and discuss issues.

Cost of Services

The City is requesting that the vendor submit a FIXED FEE service contract for ongoing maintenance
items along with an hourly rate for troubleshooting, desktop maintenance and other projects for a twelve
month period, with an option to renew for four successive twelve month periods. Each twelve month
period must be shown separately. Payment schedule should also be included (ie monthly, bi-weekly,
etc).

As a bid alternate, vendor should also submit a FIXED FEE service contract for an all-inclusive service
and maintenance, with the understanding that major projects will be negotiated on an as needed basis.

Vendors may also submit other alternative packages that they feel would meet the needs of the City as
an included alternate bid.

    Vendors must list, specifically, any services which would not be covered in the proposal price. The
    vendor shall indicate the impact, if any, of changes in the City’s IT infrastructure (number of servers
    and PC’s) on the fixed fee. Identify the following for those services not under the fixed fee:
                a) A fee schedule containing the vendor hourly rates
                b) A description of how services will be billed
                c) A description of additional charges, as in out-of-pocket expenses for travel,
                     subsistence, etc.


                                                                           2014 Richland Hills RFP IT Services
5. Evaluation Criteria
A selection committee, appointed by the City Manager, will review the vendors’ qualifications. From this
review, an evaluation and selection process will be completed using the following criteria as a benchmark
for making a recommendation. The City Council will award the contract to the vendor who provides a
proposal that it determines provides the best value for the City. The criteria are shown below and are
listed in relative order of importance:

                   A. Approach and Methodology
                   B. Project Staffing and Experience
                   C. Pricing
                   D. Satisfaction of Clients/End Users

 A rating system will be used to evaluate the proposals based on the above criteria. The award of the
 contract will be made to a firm, whose proposal receives a favorable evaluation and recommendation of
 the selection committee, with final approval by the City Council. The City reserves the right to accept
 whichever proposal is felt to be in the best interest of and provide the best value to the City of Richland
 Hills as well as to reject any and all bids for any or no reason.

6. Miscellaneous
The City Council reserves the right to reject any or all proposals for failure to meet the requirements
contained herein, to waive any technicalities, and to select the proposal which, in the Councils sole
judgment, best meets the requirements of the program.

The RFP creates no obligation on the part of the City to award a contract or to compensate the
Bidder for any costs incurred during proposal presentation, response, submission, presentation, or
oral interviews. The City reserves the right to award a contract based on proposals received without
further discussion or negotiation. Vendors should not rely upon the opportunity to alter their
qualifications during any discussions.

The City further reserves the right to make such investigation as it deems necessary, to determine
the capability of the vendors to furnish required services, and vendors shall furnish all such
information for this purpose as the City may request.

Vendors must specifically identify any portions of their submittals, deemed to contain confidential and
proprietary information, or trade secrets. However, the vendor should also understand that
information submitted may be subject to Texas Open Records Act Laws and may be disclosed if
requested.

All requests from the vendor for additional information must be made in writing (includes email), and this
information provided will be made available to all vendors at the discretion of the City.




                                                                         2014 Richland Hills RFP IT Services
