WHAT IS THE DIFFERENCE
BETWEEN RFP & RFQ?

        WHY ARE THEY
    DIFFERENT FROM A BID?
  REQUEST FOR PROPOSAL
          (RFP)
A good RFP document serves to allow more
flexibility when obtaining goods and services.
It is important that the document be written in a clear
and concise way to avoid any possible confusion on
the part of the Contractor.
With an RFP you are able to give more weight to
items and concerns that address more than just
pricing alone.
The term “value engineering” is one you may hear
associated with the RFP process. It is a way that
allows both Contractor and end user to negotiate for
a more satisfactory outcome for both.
RFP’s are especially useful when the end user is not
clear on exactly “what” will meet the need. The RFP
process allows for proposals from experts in the
area.
WHEN TO USE AN RFP
 Any time you need to obtain goods or services,
 and do not have a set of specifications to work
 from, and are unclear on a number of points
 involving the need, it is a good idea to examine the
 possibility of utilizing the RFP process as opposed
 to a straight bid.
 An RFP will allow you to identify the parameters of
 the need and what the end result needs to be, and
 lets the Contractor propose how they can do it.
 It allows for negotiations to ensure you actually get
 what you need and at a price you can afford.
 If you know what you need, and have a clear set
 of specification and requirement, it is better to use
 a bid process.
WHEN NOT TO USE AN RFP
 Once something has been purchased and has been found to
 be satisfactory, you can usually standardize the
 specifications and requirements from that purchase to serve
 you in creating a bid for future purchases, unless it is
 something that will be changing continually in the future.
 For example: Services for Cathode Protection in a City’s
 water storage system were obtained via an RFP since the
 specifics of the need were not clear. Later, when the
 contract needed to be re-solicited, it was possible to combine
 it into the contract for Diving and Inspection Services of the
 water storage tanks since the specifications and
 requirements had been established after the award of the
 first contract and were easily incorporated into that bid since
 they were related services.
 If you are just trying to establish a list of qualified vendors,
 you would use an RFQ instead.
BUT WE’VE ALWAYS DONE IT
        THIS WAY!
Just because something has been obtained
through an RFP previously, that doesn’t
necessarily mean it needs to continue being done
that way. Sometimes it makes more sense to
make it a price competitive bid. When a Contractor
knows there are going to be negotiations, they
may come in higher on the price to allow for
concessions. When they know they will be
competing with other vendors based on the first
price offered, they tend to look much harder at
what they are offering, and come in with their best
offer first.
It is very important in a bid to ensure that
Specification and Requirement will cover every
aspect of the final need.
REQUEST FOR QUALIFICATIONS
          (RFQ)
 Whenever you wish to establish a list of prequalified Contractors,
 you can use an RFQ. (An RFQ can also be a Request for Quote
 depending on the context in which it is being used.
 Similar to an RFP, an RFQ extends a solicitation notice to known
 Contractors and to others by invitation. Rather than making an
 award, bidders and proponents are pre-qualified based on the
 criteria contained in the solicitation notice and the Statement of
 Qualifications (SOQ) the Contractor submits for consideration. The
 respondents’ names may then be placed on a list for future
 solicitation opportunities as they arise during a specified period of
 time. Internal users or customers of the organization can then
 select any of the pre-qualified Contractors or service providers for
 contract award without the delay of a competitive sourcing process.
 Only those pre-qualified suppliers can be used for work described
 in the original solicitation notice. A subsequent request for similar
 work does not have to be posted for competition, thus saving the
 organization time, effort, and expense.
 An RFQ may also be used to narrow an award down to a single
 Contractor based on the SOQ and subsequent negotitations.
LOOK FOR EXAMPLES
 The Internet is a great place to find examples of
 bids, RFP, RFQ, and other forms of procurement
 tools. If anyone, anywhere ever procured it, there
 is probably an example of that procurement
 somewhere on the net. These examples are often
 great resources for specification and requirement
 that you can use to build your own solicitation
 from.
 Arizona Western College Purchasing Department
 belongs to the National Institute of Governmental
 Purchasing, and they have a library of
 specifications and bid examples that we can
 access to assist you if you have need of it, and
 we’re always happy to help. 
                  CAUTIONS!
Contractors should not be contacted unless it is through the
bidding process and through Purchasing. Contacting a
Contractor for help in writing specifications and requirements
can be seriously detrimental to the solicitation process. It
compromises the integrity to an almost irreparable degree.
The only exception is if the Contractor who assists you in
writing the specifications is not participating in the solicitation
in any way and are only acting as a consultant on the
project.
Even if nothing illegal or unethical took place, the very
appearance of any impropriety is just as damaging in the
public eye as any actual wrong doing.
Every purchase made by a College Faculty or Staff member
becomes public record and the details of that purchase can
be requested by anyone at any time through the Freedom of
Information Act. When unsure, ask yourself, “would I be
comfortable to have all the details of this purchase posted on
the front page of the paper?
