RedPrairie: Direct Commerce



Configuring RedPrairie
Purchase Order output for
Emailing
                                                           Emailing Ecometry Purchase Orders



Why the need to configure?
    RedPrairie’s (formerly Ecometry) purchase order output for emailing, contains little
    formatting of it’s data and no ability to add a purchase order form to the data output for
    emailing. With eFORMz, a RedPrairie client can now utilize the RedPrairie output to
    format the data, add a form, and email a pdf file to their vendors.




Configuring eFORMz for RedPrairie’s
Purchase Order output
    To configure RedPrairie’s purchase order output for emailing using eFORMz, a
    RedPrairie user must be on version 8.03 or later of eFORMz. With the eFORMz
    installation, a sample purchase order template (purchase_order_email.efz) will be made
    available. Also included, is a sample purchase order template (Rich Text Format) that can
    be edited and refreshed to your company look and feel.

     Once eFORMz has been installed, open the eFORMz Composer:

    1.   From your Start menu, open the eFORMz Composer by selecting Programs >
         eFORMz 8 > eFORMz Composer:




                                                                                                 1
    Emailing Ecometry Purchase Orders

            2.   From the eFORMz Main Menu select File > Open Project.




            3.   Open the following purchase order template by selecting:
                 C:\Minisoft\eFORMz_6\Projects\SoftwareProvider_Templates\RedPrairie\
                 DirectCommerce\po\purchase_order_email.efz




2
                                                  Emailing Ecometry Purchase Orders

4.   The template will display in the eFORMz Composer.




                                                                                  3
    Emailing Ecometry Purchase Orders



    eFORMz Preprocessor
            In order for eFORMz to format the data, the Replace occurrences of a string, Text file
            pagination and Text to XML Converter preprocessors needed to be added. To view these
            configurations, select Project Properties > Advanced.



     Replace Occurrences of a String
            The Replace occurrences of a string preprocessor finds the form feed in the data file and
            replaces it with an at sign. The replacing of the form feed allows eFORMz to handle the
            formatting and page breaks.




     Text File Pagination
            The Text file pagination preprocessor is utilized to force a line termination after every
            84th column. Forcing a line termination allows the text file to “wrap” and the data to be
            formatted for later use in changing the file from text to XML.




4
                                                          Emailing Ecometry Purchase Orders

Text to XML Conversion
    The Text to XML preprocessor converts the Ecometry data output to XML. The purchase_
    order_email.efz template utilizes a specific configuration for RedPrairie purchase orders.




    To edit the Text to XML Converter Properties, select Project Properties > Advanced. Pick
    the Text to XML Converter and select the Edit option.




                                                                                                 5
    Emailing Ecometry Purchase Orders



    Modifying the form template
            The purchase order project file contains an RTF (Rich Text Format) template form. The
            template form can be edited through Microsoft Word and imported into eFORMz.

            1.   Open the purchase order template form from the following default directory:
                 C:\Minisoft\eFORMz_6\Projects\SoftwareProvider_Templates\RedPrairie\
                 DirectCommerce\po\purchaseorder.rtf
            2.   The RTF file will display in Microsoft Word:




6
                                                  Emailing Ecometry Purchase Orders

3.   Make any necessary modifications.




4.   Return to the eFORMz Composer. Highlight the form from the Project Window and
     select the Reload Form icon from the toolbar.




                                                                                     7
    Emailing Ecometry Purchase Orders

            5.   The changes will be updated and shown in the Viewer.




8
                                                      Emailing Ecometry Purchase Orders

The Document Template
      The Document Template is utilized to place the purchase order total on every
      dynamically created page (‘POTotal’). Through the use of the Text to XML
      preprocessor, Ecometry’s formatting of page breaks are removed to allow eFORMz
      to place as many detail lines as possible to one page. When the detail line count
      exceeds a certain number a new page will dynamically be created.




                                                                                          9
     Emailing Ecometry Purchase Orders

             To edit the position of the Document Template:
             1.   Right click the Paragraph element and select Edit > Margins.




             2.   Alter the margins as needed.




10
                                                         Emailing Ecometry Purchase Orders



EMAIL Address Lookup
    Configure a database connection to retrieve the email address corresponding to the
    vendor number contained within the data file. To setup or configure your database
    connection through eFORMz, right click the Project name and select Properties >
    Databases. An SQL Server database name will appear in the Database dialog box. The
    SQL Server database can either be configured (Edit) or a new database configuration can
    be created (New).




                                                                                              11
     Emailing Ecometry Purchase Orders

             For this example, select the SQL Server database name and select Edit.




              NOTE: For a list of supported databases and URL and driver classes, view
                    Appendix B, Database URL and Driver Classes of the eFORMz Manual.




12
                                                           Emailing Ecometry Purchase Orders



SQL Lookup
    An SQL Lookup has been configured for the ‘EMAILADDRESS’ variable. This lookup
    is designed to call the email addresses from the Ecometry database that match the vendor
    number contained within the data file.

    1.   To access the settings, right click the SQL Lookup and select Edit.




    2.   The settings will display. Edit the SQL statement, if necessary, and enter the correct
         table and column the email address resides in. The Parameter added below represents
         your database key, in this case, the vendor number is our key.




                                                                                                  13
     Emailing Ecometry Purchase Orders



     Sort
             1.   The sort must be set so that purchase order’s are grouped together and split by the
                  purchase order number when there are multiple orders in a data file. To do this, right
                  click the Project and select Properties > Sort.
             2.   Select the New option to the right of the Sort keys field.




             3.   Check the By variable option and select the variable for the purchase order number
                  (‘PONUM’) from the drop down menu. Choose the Ascending option.




14
                                                       Emailing Ecometry Purchase Orders

4.   Select the Set Group button. An asterisk will appear after Ascending to indicate it has
     been set.




                                                                                               15
     Emailing Ecometry Purchase Orders



     Emailing an Ecometry Purchase Order
     with eFORMz
             1.   To set up the purchase order template for emailing, switch to the eDIRECT PLUS (or
                  eDIRECT) tab and select Add Output > E-Mail.




             2.   Right click the E-Mail and select Add provider > JavaMail.




16
                                                         Emailing Ecometry Purchase Orders

3.   Enter values in the respective fields.




4.   Right click the E-Mail and select Add attachment.




                                                                                       17
     Emailing Ecometry Purchase Orders

             5.   Choose PDF from the drop down menu and navigate to the File tab.




             6.   Select the Variable for the purchase order number.




18
                                                       Emailing Ecometry Purchase Orders

7.   Right click the content and select Add Form(s).




8.   Select the appropriate form.




9.   From the eFORMz main menu, select Run > Process w/eDIRECT PLUS (or
     eDIRECT) to email the purchase orders.




                                                                                     19
     Emailing Ecometry Purchase Orders



     Local Toolkit Setup
             1.   To set up the purchase order template for automated emailing, open the Local Toolkit
                  by navigating to the eFORMz Main Menu and selecting Host Tools > Local Tookit.
             2.   The Local Toolkit will display. Right click the configuration and select Add Input >
                  Directory.




20
                                                        Emailing Ecometry Purchase Orders

3.   Select the browse button (...) for the Input Directory and locate the input directory.
     This is where the source print file will reside and then be pulled to be merged with
     the eFORMz Project. For Ecometry users this is likely the SPOOLOUT directory,
     though eFORMz is capabale of monitoring multiple directories.




4.   Right click the Input Directory and choose the Add File Selector option.




                                                                                              21
     Emailing Ecometry Purchase Orders

             5.   Enter the print file that has been selected to merge with the eFORMz Project. In
                  the SPOOLOUT directory, there will be several purchase order data files. In order
                  for eFORMz to pick up and process them all, they can be wildcarded by using an
                  asterisk. Also, be sure to check the Append “.hld” to the selected file option. This
                  retains the extension of the print file, which with Ecometry, refers to the job number
                  that produced the output.




             6.   Right click the File Selector, highlight the Add Processor and pick the eFORMz
                  option.




             7.   Choose the purchase_order_email.efz project template.




22
                                                       Emailing Ecometry Purchase Orders

8.   Right click the eFORMz Project, highlight Add Output Process and select Process w/
     eDIRECT PLUS.




9.   Enter the directory that will store the email records. Select Disable standard
     subdirectories to disable the creation and indexing of new subdirectories for each
     batch of emails.




                                                                                          23
     Emailing Ecometry Purchase Orders

             10. The Local Toolkit has been configured to email RedPrairie Direct Commerce
                 purchase orders.




24
