                                                                                         Allergy Asthma & Immunology Relief, P.A.
                                                                                                     8810 Blakeney Professional Drive
                                                                                                       Charlotte, North Carolina 28277
                                                                                                                    Tel: 704-910-1402
                                                                                                                    Fax: 704-910-1506
                                                                                                      Email: info@aairofcharlotte.com
                                                                                                              www.aairofcharlotte.com
Maeve E. O’Connor, MD, FACAAI, FAAAA
Jennifer Caicedo, MD
Leandra Tonweber, PA-C
Joe Giordano, PA-C	  
   	  
                                                   HIPAA Consent Form
   The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA), established a
   Privacy Rule to help insure that personal health care information is protected for
   privacy. The Privacy Rule was also created in order to provide a standard for certain
   health care providers to obtain their patients consent for uses and disclosures of health
   information about the patient to carry out treatment, payment, or health care
   operations.

   As our patient, we want you to know that we respect the privacy of your personal
   medical records and will do all we can to secure and protect that privacy. We strive to
   always take reasonable precautions to protect your privacy. When it is appropriate or
   necessary, we provide the minimum necessary information only to those we feel are in
   need of your health care information regarding treatment, payment or health care
   operations, in order to provide health care that is in your best interest.

   We fully support your access to your personal medical records. We may have indirect
   treatment relationships with you (such as laboratories that only interact with the
   physician and not the patients), and may have to disclose personal health information
   for purposes of treatment, payment or health care operations. These entities are most
   often not required to obtain patient consent.

   You may refuse to consent to the use or disclosure of your personal health information,
   but this must be done in writing. Under this law, we have the right to refuse to treat you
   should you choose to refuse to disclose your Personal Health Information. If you
   choose to give consent in this document, at some future time you may request to
   refuse all or part of your Personal Health Information. You may not revoke actions that
   have already been taken which relied on this or a previously singed consent.

   If you have any objections to this form, please ask to speak with our HIPAA
   Compliance Officer. You have the right to review our Privacy Notice (Compliance
   Assurance Notification to Our Patients), to request restrictions and revoke consent in
   writhing.
                               8810	  Blakeney	  Professional	  Drive	  Charlotte,	  North	  Carolina	  28277	  
                                                       Telephone:	  (704)	  910-­‐1402	  
                                                       www.aairofcharlotte.com	  
