Incarcerated and Recently
Released Consumers
Incarceration and Health Coverage Overview ..............................................................................1
Marketplace Coverage..................................................................................................................1
Marketplace Coverage and Household Members of Incarcerated Consumers.............................4
Medicaid Coverage .......................................................................................................................5
Medicare Coverage ......................................................................................................................7
Aiding the Transition of Recently Incarcerated Consumers ..........................................................8
Scenario .......................................................................................................................................8

Incarceration and Health Coverage Overview i
The Affordable Care Act (ACA) expands access to coverage and services that consumers
released from incarceration may need. This fact sheet will help you assist incarcerated or
recently released consumers and their families.
The rules related to coverage of incarcerated consumers through a Marketplace 1 are different
from the rules that apply to Medicaid or Medicare, and it is important that assisters2 understand
those differences. The same rules apply to incarcerated juveniles; however, juveniles cannot be
determined eligible for the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) while incarcerated.

Marketplace Coverage
The type of contact consumers have with the criminal justice system determines the type of
health coverage consumers are eligible to receive. The Affordable Care Act states that
consumers are not eligible to enroll in a Qualified Health Plan (QHP) through the Health
Insurance Marketplaces if they are incarcerated, unless they are pending the disposition of

1 This term refers to the Federally-facilitated Marketplace (including State Partnership Marketplaces), and to State-
based Marketplaces that rely on the federal eligibility and enrollment platform. State-based Marketplaces that do
not rely on the federal eligibility and enrollment platform may use the interpretations and policies in this document,
or other reasonable ones, consistent with applicable law.
2 “In this fact sheet, “assisters” refers to certified application counselors (CACs), Navigators, and non-Navigator

assistance personnel who help consumers in the Federally-facilitated Marketplaces. The term “you” is also often
used to refer to FFM assisters.
2


charges. For the purpose of determining eligibility, it is important to note the definition of
incarceration used by the Marketplaces. In the following three situations, consumers are not
considered incarcerated and are still eligible to enroll or continue existing enrollment in
Marketplace coverage:

Marketplace Considers Not Incarcerated
     Pre-conviction

      This includes consumers who are arrested but not convicted of a crime and consumers
      who are convicted of a crime pending disposition of charges (i.e. awaiting sentencing),
      whether confined to a correctional institution, or released on bail, bond, or other
      conditional release.
      Consumers pending disposition of charges can enroll in or continue existing enrollment in
      a QHP through a Marketplace. However, once convicted, consumers are no longer
      eligible for Marketplace coverage if they are incarcerated and should end their existing
      coverage through a Marketplace.
     Probation or Parole

      Consumers who are on probation or parole are not considered incarcerated and may be
      eligible to enroll or continue existing enrollment in a QHP through a Marketplace. If
      consumers’ probation or parole is revoked, they are no longer eligible to enroll in a QHP
      through a Marketplace, and if already enrolled, they should end their existing coverage
      through a Marketplace.
     Post-conviction—Under Limited Supervision or Confinement

      Consumers who have been convicted of a crime and are sentenced to a partial, limited,
      or alternative form of confinement are not considered incarcerated and may be eligible to
      enroll in a QHP through a Marketplace if no government entity is required to provide the
      individual with medical care. Below are examples of what the Marketplaces consider
      limited supervision or confinement:
             Serving a sentence but allowed work release

             Under house arrest or home confinement

             Residing in a halfway house or other similar type of residential community
              supervision as a result of a conviction
3



Marketplace Considers Incarcerated
       Post-conviction—Serving Sentence in Jail or Prison

        For purposes of Marketplace eligibility determination, consumers are considered
        incarcerated once they are in the custody of a penal authority and confined to a
        correctional facility, such as a jail, prison, or a mental health institution as a result of a
        conviction of criminal offense. Incarcerated consumers are not eligible to enroll or
        continue enrollment through a Marketplace. If the incarcerated consumer is already
        enrolled, they should end their existing Marketplace coverage. Instructions for ending
        Marketplace coverage are available at www.healthcare.gov/reporting-changes/cancel-
        plan/.
        Incarcerated consumers are exempt from paying the individual shared responsibility
        payment while serving a sentence. If an incarcerated consumer does not expect to be
        included in their household’s tax return and their income is below the tax filing threshold,
        the incarcerated consumer will automatically be exempt from the individual shared
        responsibility provision for that year and does not need to take any further action to secure
        an exemption. If the incarcerated consumer is included in the tax household, the tax filer
        must claim the exemption for the incarcerated consumer when they submit their federal
        income tax return to avoid having to pay the individual responsibility payment for the
        incarcerated household member.
        After they are released, formerly incarcerated consumers must have minimum essential
        health care coverage, pay the individual shared responsibility payment, or qualify for
        another exemption. Consumers released from incarceration have up to 60 days from the
        date of their release to qualify for a special enrollment period (SEP) and enroll in
        coverage. After incarcerated consumers are released, their household should report a
        change in incarceration status, income, or other changes as soon as possible, within 30
        days.
        Consumers can find more information about their qualification for an SEP following
        release from incarceration by visiting www.healthcare.gov/screener or calling the
        Marketplace Call Center at 1-800-318-2596 (TTY: 1-855-889-4325). Consumers can start
        a new Marketplace application or update an existing application if they had a Marketplace
        plan earlier in the year or want to be added to a Marketplace application for other family
        members already enrolled in Marketplace coverage.
        Assisters can help consumers released from incarceration update an application in the
        following two ways; however, if they are joining their family’s plan, they may need
        authorization from the family member who opened the Marketplace account to make
        changes.
4


         1. Online: consumers can log in to their Marketplace account, select an existing
            application, choose “Report a life change” from the menu on the left, and then click on
            the “Report a life change” button.
         2. By phone: consumers can contact the Marketplace Call Center at 1-800-318-2596
            (TTY: 1-855-889-4325).
    Detailed instructions on reporting a change are available at www.healthcare.gov/reporting-
    changes/how-to-report-changes/.

Marketplace Coverage and Household Members of Incarcerated
Consumers
Incarcerated consumers are exempt from the individual shared responsibility payment.
However, consumers who have an incarcerated individual in their household must determine
whether to include the incarcerated individual on Marketplace applications as a non-applicant.
Should household members include an incarcerated consumer on a Marketplace application? 3
    Yes, as a non-applicant                              No
    If an incarcerated consumer expects to be            If an incarcerated consumer does not expect
    included in a household’s tax return for the         to be included in a household’s tax return for
    year the household is applying for coverage,         the year the household is applying for
    include them as a non-applicant (e.g., if they       coverage, do not include them. (e.g., if they
    are sentenced to six months in prison or jail        are sentenced to several years in prison).
    and expect to return to work after release).
    The incarcerated consumer will be denied
    Marketplace coverage. The rest of the family
    can continue to enroll in coverage, if eligible.
Table 1: Should household members include an incarcerated consumer on a Marketplace application?

After becoming incarcerated, a member of the incarcerated person’s household should
terminate any existing Marketplace coverage for that individual as soon as possible, within 30 4
days unless they are pending disposition of charges 5 (pre-conviction). A Marketplace does not
terminate coverage for incarcerated consumers automatically, so they are responsible for
monthly premiums until their Marketplace coverage is terminated.


3 For more information on whom consumers should include in their household on a Marketplace application, visit
https://www.healthcare.gov/income-and-household-information/household-size/.
4 The change should still be reported even if more than 30 days has passed.
5 The household does not need to report when a member is incarcerated pending disposition of charges because

that household member remains eligible for Marketplace coverage.
5


If the incarcerated consumer has difficulty contacting the Marketplace Call Center or visiting
HealthCare.gov, changes can also be reported through the Marketplace Call Center by:
       An adult age 18 or over who is on the application and applied for Marketplace coverage;
        and

       An adult age 18 or over listed as a tax filer on the incarcerated consumer’s application for
        Marketplace coverage, even if the tax filer didn’t apply for coverage.

If neither the incarcerated individual nor any adult on the application is able to contact a
Marketplace to report a change and end enrollment through the Marketplace, then an individual
authorized to contact the Marketplace on the incarcerated individual’s behalf can call the
Marketplace Call Center. Additionally, individuals can seek help with the process of reporting a
change in eligibility from a Navigator, a certified application counselor (CAC), a non-Navigator
assistance personnel, an agent or broker registered with a Marketplace, or a correctional facility
representative.
Incarcerated consumers may continue their enrollment in private health insurance coverage
outside the Marketplaces through the individual, or non-group, market.

Medicaid Coverage
Medicaid covers services for eligible consumers who are awaiting sentencing in their community
or who are on probation or parole, and consumers living in state or local-corrections supervised
community residential facilities (e.g., a halfway house), if they have freedom of movement and
association while residing at the facility. 6 Consumers who are in the lawful custody of a state or
locality and held involuntarily in a public institution are considered incarcerated for purposes of
Medicaid eligibility and may be enrolled in Medicaid, but may not receive Medicaid covered
services.

Using Medicaid While Incarcerated
States may not provide Medicaid coverage for health care services delivered to incarcerated
consumers, with one exception: for care delivered outside the institution, such as at a hospital or
nursing home, when the person has been admitted for 24 hours or more. Incarcerated
consumers who are eligible but aren’t enrolled in Medicaid can secure retroactive Medicaid
coverage under this exception as long as they apply within three months of receiving treatment.
The same limitation applies to consumers who are being held before or after their sentencing in
jail or prison, or a halfway home.



6 For guidance on facilitating access to covered Medicaid services for eligible individuals prior to and after a stay in

a correctional institution, see https://www.medicaid.gov/federal-policy-guidance/downloads/sho16007.pdf
6



Applying for Medicaid While Incarcerated
Eligible consumers who apply for Medicaid during incarceration can get needed medical care
more quickly upon release. Consumers’ eligibility depends on the state in which they live and
the individual circumstances of the household. Consumers may apply for Medicaid coverage at
any time before, during, or after incarceration in the following two ways:
    1. Through HealthCare.gov or their state’s Marketplace
              Online, by phone (e.g., using the Marketplace Call Center-1-800-318-2596 ) or by
               mailing a paper application (e.g., https://marketplace.cms.gov/applications-and-
               forms/marketplace-application-for-family.pdf)
    2. In person or over the phone with the State Medicaid agency
              Contact information for State Medicaid agencies available here:
               https://www.healthcare.gov/medicaid-chip/getting-medicaid-chip/
Some states automatically facilitate this process for incarcerated consumers prior to release and
other states have a policy to suspend—rather than terminate—a person’s Medicaid coverage
while he or she is incarcerated. Check the rules in your state.
Incarceration and Household Size for Medicaid and CHIP
If a household with an incarcerated consumer is seeking Medicaid or CHIP coverage, eligibility
rules vary by state and by the individual circumstances of the household. There are no special
rules or exceptions to the Modified Adjusted Gross Income (MAGI) methodology for
incarcerated consumers or for their household members. However, changes in household size
due to incarceration may also affect Medicaid or CHIP eligibility.

Medicaid Eligibility and Incarceration in Another State
If a consumer is incarcerated in an out-of-state facility, the consumer’s home state remains their
state of residence for purposes of Medicaid eligibility. If an incarcerated consumer intends to
reside in a different state after their release, the consumer can use an address from that state
when applying for Medicaid. Medicaid does not require incarcerated consumers to have a fixed
or home address; however, they must list an address through which they can be contacted after
release. Consumers applying for Medicaid before, during, or after incarceration may use the
address of a probation or parole office or community residential facility for this purpose.
7



Medicare Coverage
Medicare generally does not cover services for incarcerated beneficiaries. Incarcerated
consumers under Medicare include, but are not limited to, individuals who are:
       Under arrest                                     Required to reside in mental health
                                                          facilities
       Incarcerated
                                                         Required to reside in halfway houses
       Imprisoned
                                                         Required to live under home detention
       Escaped from confinement
                                                         Confined completely or partially in any
       Under supervised release                          way under a penal statute or rule

       On medical furlough



Maintaining Medicare While Incarcerated
Although Medicare will generally not pay for their health care costs while in jail, incarcerated
consumers who have Original Medicare should consider maintaining their Part A and Part B
coverage to ensure that the coverage will be effective upon their release. For most consumers,
Part A (hospital) coverage is free and they do not have to pay a monthly premium to maintain
coverage. To maintain Part B (outpatient) coverage, consumers will have to pay the monthly
Part B premium. If they do not pay the monthly premium, they will be unenrolled and lose Part B
coverage.
If consumers lose their Part B coverage, they have to wait until the General Enrollment Period
(January 1-March 31) to re-enroll and wait until July 1st for Part B coverage to start again.
Consumers released from incarceration may face a coverage gap if they are released after the
General Enrollment Period. They can also face premium penalties for late or delayed enrollment
in Part B while they are eligible, which can make their Medicare coverage more expensive in
future years.
For more information on Medicare coverage of items and services furnished to beneficiaries in
custody under a penal authority, visit https://www.cms.gov/Outreach-and-Education/Medicare-
Learning-Network-MLN/MLNProducts/Downloads/Items-Services-Furnished-to-Beneficiaries-in-
Custody-Under-Penal-Authority-Fact-Sheet-ICN908084.pdf.

Applying for Medicare While Incarcerated
Consumers who become eligible for Medicare while incarcerated should actively enroll in
Original Medicare Part A and Part B coverage to ensure that Medicare will pay for health care
8


services upon their release. All consumers have a seven month initial enrollment period (IEP)
that consists of the 3 months prior to turning 65, the month of their birthday, and the 3 months
after turning 65.
Consumers who become eligible for Medicare while incarcerated: Incarcerated consumers who
anticipate being released from incarceration should actively enroll in Medicare, since they will
not be automatically enrolled in coverage. If eligible, they should enroll in Part A and Part B
coverage while in prison to ensure that Medicare will pay for health care services upon their
release from prison. If consumers do not enroll in Medicare during their IEP, they may have to
pay a late enrollment penalty when they sign-up.

Aiding the Transition of Recently Incarcerated Consumers
Consumers who receive health coverage after being released from incarceration may need
additional information about how health coverage works and how to navigate the health care
delivery system. Assisters can aid in the transition of recently released consumers by doing the
following:
       Explaining the basics of health insurance, including the costs associated with health care
        services under different plans (i.e. premiums, out-of-pocket costs, deductibles, and
        coinsurance).

       Helping consumers learn about community health centers or other health care providers
        that might have experience caring for recently released consumers.

       Advising consumers to obtain coverage and schedule an appointment with a physician as
        soon as possible following their release.

       Referring consumers to other organizations in the community that can help them find
        housing, employment, legal services, and other supportive services.

Scenario
Samantha is 26 years old and is seeking advice on obtaining Medicaid coverage for her mother,
Jean, who is currently incarcerated but scheduled to be released in four months. Samantha is
aware that her mother will be required to have health coverage to avoid paying the penalty once
she is released from jail. Samantha is uncertain whether her mother may submit an application
and start receiving coverage while still incarcerated.
What advice would you give Samantha to help Jean apply for Medicaid and start using her
coverage?
       Inform Samantha that her mother can apply for Medicaid while she is incarcerated. The
        Marketplace and/or her state of residence will determine whether Jean is eligible for
9


        Medicaid based on her household size, income, and other eligibility criteria. Federal
        Medicaid payment will be limited to certain inpatient services in a medical institution while
        she is incarcerated. However, if Jean submits an application while incarcerated and is
        found eligible, she may have timely access to the full array of Medicaid-covered services
        upon release. If Jane is found not to be eligible for Medicaid, she will have a 60-day SEP
        to enroll in Marketplace coverage, if otherwise eligible.

How would you explain to Jean or Jean’s household how to claim the exemption from the
individual shared responsibility payment for incarcerated consumers?
       Because Jean is currently incarcerated, Jean or a tax filer in her household on her behalf
        can claim an exemption from the individual shared responsibility payment for each month
        in which she is incarcerated for at least one day. She can claim this exemption when she
        files her federal income taxes 7. Once Jean is released, she must have minimum essential
        coverage, be eligible for another exemption, or be subject to the individual shared
        responsibility payment.


iThe information provided in this document is intended only to be a general informal summary of technical legal
standards. It is not intended to take the place of the statutes, regulations, or formal policy guidance that it is based
upon. This document summarizes current policy and operations as of the date it was presented. We encourage
readers to refer to the applicable statutes, regulations, and other interpretive materials for complete and current
information.




7 For more information on how to claim an exemption due to incarceration, go to

https://www.healthcare.gov/exemptions-tool/#/results/2016/details/incarceration.
