Medical Information and Liability Release Form
This form must be completed for all Chapter activities, Regional and
National events annually.



  Chapter                                                             State                 Region                           Year


Important: This form must be completed for all children/teens, including children/teens of non-members, participating in any
Chapter activities or Regional and National events. A complete release form is mandatory for each child/teen and must be
signed by a parent or legal guardian at the beginning of each Program year and before participation in such activities. It is the
role of the Chapter Program Director to ensure a form is completed for each child/teen prior to the child/teen participating in
the activities described above and to ensure that, for members of Jack and Jill of America, Inc., a new form is completed for
each child/teen at the beginning of the Program year and properly discarded at the end of the same Program year. During the
year, all forms must be stored in a locked and secured location.



Member/Non-Member Participant Information


  Mother’s Name                                       Email Address                         Phone Number



  Father’s Name                                       Email Address                         Phone Number

                                                                                Child   ☐            Teen     ☐   Male   ☐          Female   ☐
  Child/Teen’s Name                                   DOB



  Address                                                                City                         State              Zip




Medical Information
Instructions: Check all that apply. If a condition is checked, please provide details in the space provided.

             Asthma     ☐
            Diabetes    ☐
      Heart Disease     ☐
          Hay Fever     ☐
     Eating Disorder    ☐
            Seizures    ☐
      Drug Allergies    ☐
      Food Allergies    ☐
 Physical Limitations   ☐
               Other    ☐


 Date of Child/Teen’s last Tetanus shot (mm/dd/yyyy):

 Please list all medications and dosage currently taking:




                                                                                                                     Revised: November 2017
                                                                                                           Medical Information
                                                                                                            and Release Form



Insurance and Physician Information


 Insurance Carrier                           Policy Holder                                Insurance Phone Number



 Policy/Group Number                         Primary Physician                            Physician Phone Number




Release Information

 Medical Authorization

 I,                                      , parent or legal guardian of                                                hereby
 give my consent for a chaperone or other adult representative of Jack and Jill of America, Inc. or to obtain such medical
 care as is reasonably necessary for the welfare of my child/teen, in the event of any emergency or other medical occurrence.
 I request that payment under my medical insurance program be made directly to the site of services rendered. I understand I
 am financially responsible for fees not covered by this authorization.


 General Release

 I,                                      , the undersigned parent or legal guardian, do hereby release Jack and Jill of America,
 Inc., including all Chapters, its chaperones or designees from any and all liability which might result from any personal injury
 claims or cause of action which might result directly or indirectly from my minor child/teen’s participation in any activity or trip
 which may be conducted under the supervision or direction of Jack and Jill of America, Inc.




 Parent/Guardian Signature



 Print Name                                             Relationship to Minor                                Date




 Important Notice: In accordance to the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA) Privacy Rule
 regulation, it is important that all parties in receipt of this form, assure that the information contained on this document is
 properly protected while allowing the flow of health information needed to provide health care and to protect the individual’s
 health and well-being. The purpose of the Privacy Rule is to define and limit the circumstances in which an individual’s
 Protected Health Information (PHI) may be used or disclosed. Contents contained on this document should only be discussed
 or shared with the individual (or their personal representative) or for the treatment activities of any healthcare provider.
