HIPAA Compliance Patient Consent Form

Our Notice of Privacy Practices provides information about how we may use or disclose protected health
information.

The notice contains a patient's rights section describing your rights under the law. You ascertain that by
your signature that you have reviewed our notice before signing this consent.

The terms of the notice may change, i f so, you will be notified at your next visit to update your
signature/date.

You have the right to restrict how your protected health information is used and disclosed for treatment,
payment or healthcare operations. We are not required to agree with this restriction, but i f we do, we shall
honor this agreement. The HIPAA (Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996) law
allows for the use of the information for treatment, payment, or healthcare operations.

By signing this form, you consent to our use and disclosure of your protected healthcare information and
potentially anonymous usage in a publication. You have the right to revoke this consent in writing, signed
by you. However, such a revocation will not be retroactive.

By signing this form, I understand that:

         Protected health information may be disclosed or used for treatment, payment, or healthcare
         operations.
         The practice reserves the right to change the privacy policy as allowed by law.
         The practice has the right to restrict the use of the information but the practice does not have to
         agree to those restrictions.
         The patient has the right to revoke this consent in writing at any time and all full disclosures will
         then cease.
         The practice may condition receipt of treatment upon execution of this consent.




May we discuss your medical condition with any member of your family? YES NO

I f YES, please name the members allowed:




This consent was signed by:

                                     (PRINT NAME PLEASE)

Signature:                                                                         Date:

Emergency Contact:

Phone Number:
                                    APPLICATION FOR TREATMENT


              Name:                                                                                      . Today's Date:
          Address:                                                            City/State/Zip:
       E-mail Address:
    Birth Date:      /   /      Age:                      Are you Pregnant:           •    Yes     •    No
Employer's Name & Address:
Occupation:                                               Work Phone No.:                                  Home Phone No.:


What type o f care do you desire:       •    Temporary Relief             •    Lasting Correction              •   Best Care Possible

                    Please circle the exact location o f any pain                    In order o f importance, list the health problems you
                  you are experiencing. Then describe the type                    are most interested in getting corrected:
                  pain, i.e. dull, sharp, constant, on & off, etc.
                                                                                  1)
                                                                                  2)
                                                                                  3)
                                                                                  4)
                                                                                     5)

                                                                                  In order o f severity, list those body functions that
                                                                                  you are unable to perform, or that produce pain upon
                                                                                  performance, i.e. walking, sitting, bending, etc.
                                                                                     1)
                                                                                  2)
                                                                                     3)
                                                                                  4)
                                                                                     5)

                                                                                     When was the first time you noticed this problem:




Describe any accidents, falls, injuries, sudden movements, etc. that may have caused your problem:


Have you had any similar health problems or injuries before?                   OYes         • No       I f yes, please explain:


Names o f all other doctors you have seen for this problem:


Diagnosis and type o f treatment you received (please include where and when you received treatment, and the results):



Has your health problem been:       •       Improving      •    Worsening        •        Staying the Same
Please describe anything you do that improves your condition, or worsens it:


Please check o f f and describe how this problem interferes with your work and/or personal life:
•   Home Activities Effected:
•   Work Activities Effected:
    Have you missed any work days?              •   Yes        •   No     I f yes, dates missed:
•    Recreational Activities Effected:
n   Rest or Sleep Effected:
                                                           (Please complete reverse side.)
                          During tiie last year, has a doctor treated you for any health problem?                                             •   Yes              •    No
                     I f yes, please explain:




         Have you ever received Chiropractic care?                   •        Yes        •   No           I f yes, please list the doctor's name, location o f
    office and for what problems:                                                    ]




   Please check off the drugs you are now taking:                     •           Pain Killers             •       Muscle Relaxers                    •       Anti-inflammatory
   •     Blood Pressure Medication               •   Insulin          •           Birth Control Pills                 •          Tranquilizers            •    Diet Pills
    •    Nerve Medication          •       Sleeping Pills        •        Anti-depressants                     •     Other (please list):


   List the approximate dates o f any accidents, operations or serious injuries (including broken bones) you have had:




   I f you have been in an automobile accident, when? •                             This Year         •     Last Year               •   Past 5 Years           •        Over 5 Years

   Please check o f f the following that apply to you within the past 2 years:                                       •           Went to a Health Spa
                     •     Purchased Vitamins               •    Purchased Health Foods                                      •     Received a Massage                             ; •
   Please explain why you choose to do any o f the above:




                          Marital Status:        •   Married          •           Single     •       Widowed                 •     Divorced       •       Separated

                 Names & Ages o f Children:                                                                                                                               .

           Name o f wife or husband:

        Spouse's Employer:                                                                           Business Phone:



                         Who is responsible for your bill?                    •     I am     •       Spouse (Spouse's Birthdate:                                   /_

                 •    M y Employer           •   Insurance        •           Other:

             Type o f Insurance:       •     Worker's Comp.               •        Health        •    Automobile

         Insurance Company's Name & Address:




   I f you are responsible for your health care fees, payment w i l l be made by:                                        •       Cash    •    Check            •        Credit Card


   Your fees are due and payable at the time examinations. X-rays, and treatments are received, unless other arrangements
   have been made in advance. X-rays remain property o f this clinic.


   I , the undersigned, hereby give permission for treatment.                                                                                         , . .



   Patient's Signature                                          Social Security No:                                                                       Date:               /   /




© 2007 Dr. Femandez.com                          To Reorder call 800-882-4476                                                                                                           F1025A
PIDCOCK CHIROPRACTIC, Inc. 3028 Peach Orchard Rd. Augusta, GA 30906 Phone 706/798-8980
Dr. Scott J. Pidcock, Chiropractor

              THIS NOTICE DESCRIBES H O W H E A L T H I N F O R M A T I O N ABOUT YOU
              M A Y BE USED AND DISCLOSED AND H O W YOU CAN GET ACCESS TO
                                    THAT INFORMATION.
                          PLEASE REVIEW THIS NOTICE CAREFULLY.

This Practice is committed to maintaining the privacy of your protected health information ("PHI"), which
includes information about your health condition and the care and treatment you receive from the Practice. The
creation of a record detailing the care and services you receive helps this office to provide you with quality
health care. This Notice details how your PHI may be used and disclosed to third parties. This Notice also
details your rights regarding your PHI.

USE AND DISCLOSURE I N F O R M A T I O N
           1.       The Practice may use and/or disclose your PHI for the purposes of:
                    (a)       Treatment - In order to provide you with the health care you require, the Practice
will provide your PHI to those health care professionals, whether on the Practice's staff or not, directly involved
in your care so that they may understand your health condition and needs. For example, a physician treating
you for lower back pain may need to know the results of your last examination by this office.
                    (b)       Payment - In order to get pain for services provided to you, the Practice will provide
your PHI, directly or through a billing service, to appropriate third party payers, pursuant to their billing and
payment requirements. For example, the Practice may need to provide the Medicare program with information
about health care services that you have received from the Practice so that the Practice can be properly
reimbursed. The Practice may also need to tell your insurance plan about treatment you are going to receive so
that it can determine whether or not it will cover the treatment expense.
                    (c)       Health Care Operations - In order for the Practice to operate in accordance with
applicable law and insurance requirements and in order for the Practice to continue to provide quality and
efficient care, it may be necessary for the Practice to compile, use and/or disclose your PHI. For example, the
Practice may use your PHI in order to evaluate the performance of the Practice's personnel in providing care to
you.
          2.        The Practice may also use and/or disclose your PHI in the following instances:
                    (a)       De-identified Information - Information that does not identify you and, even without
your name, cannot be used to identify you.
                    (b)       Business Associate - To a business associate i f the Practice obtains satisfactory
written assurance, in accordance with applicable law, that the business associate will appropriately safeguard
your PHI. A business associate is an entify that assists the Practice in undertaking some essential fiinction, such
as a billing company that assists the office in submittmg claims for payment to insurance companies or other
payers.
                    (c)       Personal Representative - To a person who, under applicable law, has the authority
to represent you in making decisions related to your health care.
                    (d)       Emergency Situations -
                              (i)       for the purpose of obtaining or rendering emergency treatment to you
                    provided that the Practice attempts to obtain your acknowledgement of our Privacy Notice as
                    soon as possible; or
                              (ii)      to a public or private entify authorized by law or by its charter to assist in
                    disaster relief efforts, for the purpose of coordinating your care with such entities in an
                    emergency situation.
                    (e)       Communication Barriers - If, due to substantial communication barriers or inabilify
to communicate, the Practice has been unable to obtain you acknowledgement of our Privacy Notice and the
Practice determines, in the exercise of its professional judgment, that your consent to receive treatment is
clearly inferred from the circumstances.
                    (f)      Public Health Activities - Such activities include, for example, information collected
by a public health authorify, as authorized by law, to prevent or control disease.




                                                         2
AUTHORIZATION
           Use and/or disclosures, other than those described above, will be made only with your written
Authorization.
YOUR RIGHTS
           1.       You have the right to:
                    (a)      Revoke an Authorization, in writing, at any time. To request a revocation, you must
submit a written request to the Practice's Privacy Officer.
                    (b)      Request restrictions on certain use and/or disclosure of your PHI as provided by law.
However, the Practice is not obligated to agree to any requested restrictions. To request restrictions, you must
submit a written request to the Practice's Privacy Officer. In your written request, you must inform the Practice
of what information you want to limit, whether you want to limit the Practice's use or disclosure, or both, and to
whom you want the limits to apply. I f the Practice agrees to your request, the Practice will comply with your
request unless the information is needed in order to provide you with emergency treatment.
                    (c)      Receive confidential communications or PHI by alternative means or at alternative
locations. You must make your request in writing to the Practice's Privacy Officer. The Practice will
accommodate all reasonable requests.
                    (d)      Inspect and copy your PHI as provided by law. To inspect and copy your PHI, you
must submit a written request to the Practice's Privacy Officer. The Practice can charge a fee for the cost of
copying, mailing or other supplies associated with your request. In certain situations that are defined by the
law, the Practice may deny your request, by you will have the right to have the denial reviewed as set forth
more fully in the written denial notice.
                    (e)      Amend your PHI as provided by law. To request an amendment, you must submit a
written request to the Practice's Privacy Officer. You must provide a reason that supports your request. The
Practice may deny your request i f it is not in writing, if you do not provide a reason in support of your request,
if the information to be amended was not created by the Practice (unless the individual or entity that created the
information is no longer available), i f the information is not part of your PHI maintained by the Practice, i f the
information is not part of the information you would be permitted to inspect and copy, and/or i f the information
is accurate and complete. I f you disagree with the Practice's denial, you will have the right to submit a written
statement of disagreement.
                    (f)     Receive an accounting of disclosures of you PHI as provided by law. To request an
accounting, you must submit a written request to the Practice's Privacy Officer. The request must state a time
period which may not be longer that six (6) years and may not include dates before April 14, 2003. The request
should indicate in what form you want the list (such as a paper or electronic copy). The first list you request
within a twelve (12) month period will be free, but the Practice may charge you for the cost of providing
additional lists. The Practice will notify you of the costs involved and you can decide to withdraw or modify
your request before any costs are incurred.
                    (g)      Receive a paper copy of this Privacy Notice fi-om the Practice upon request to the
Practice's Privacy Officer.
                    (h)      Complain to the Practice or Secretary of HHS if you believe your privacy rights have
been violated. To file a complaint with the Practice, you must contact the Practice's Privacy Officer. A l l
complaints must be in writing.
                    (i)      To obtain more information on, or have your questions about your rights answered,
you may contact the Practice's Privacy Officer.
PRACTICE'S REQUIREMENTS
           1.       The Practice:
                    (a)      Is required by federal law to maintain the privacy of your PHI and to provide you
          with this Privacy Notice detailing the Practice's legal duties and privacy practices with respect to your
          PHI.
                    (b)      Is required by State law to maintain a higher level of confidentiality with respect to
          certain portions of your medical information that is provided for under federal law. In particular, the
          Practice is required to comply with the State statutes:
                    (c)      Is required to abide by the terms of this Privacy Notice.
                    (d)      Reserves the right to change the terms of this Privacy Notice and to make the new
                             Privacy Notice provisions effective for all of your PHI that it maintains.
                    (e)      Will distribute any revised Privacy Notice to you prior to implementation
                    (f)     Will not retaliate against you for filing a complaint.



                                                        4
                     (g)       Abuse. Neglect, or Domestic Violence - To a government authority i f the Practice is
required by law to make such disclosure. I f the Practice is authorized by law to make such a disclosure, it will
do so i f it believes that the disclosure is necessary to prevent serious harm.
                     (h)       Health Oversight Activities - Such activities, which must be required by law,
involve government agencies and may include, for example, criminal investigations, disciplinary actions, or
general oversight activities relating to the community's health care system.
                     (i)       Law Enforcement Purposes - In certain instances, your PHI may have to be
disclosed to a law enforcement official. For example, your PHI may be the subject of a grand jury subpoena.
Or, the Practice may disclose your PHI i f the Practice believes that your death was the result of criminal
conduct.
                     (k)       Coroner or Medical Examiner - The Practice may disclose your PHI to a coroner or
medical examiner for the purpose of identifying you or determining your cause of death.
                     (1)       Organ. Eye, or Tissue Donation - I f you are an organ donor, the Practice may
disclose your PHI to the entity to whom you have agreed to donate your organs.
                     (m)       Research - I f the Practice is involved in research activities, your PHI may be used,
but such use is subject to numerous governmental requirements intended to protect the privacy of your PHI.
                     (n)       Avert a Threat to Health or Safety - The Practice may disclose your PHI i f is
believes that such disclosure is necessary to prevent or lessen a serious and imminent threat to the health or
safefy of a person or the public and the disclosure is to an individual who is reasonably able to prevent or lessen
the threat.
                     (o)       Specialized Government Functions - This refers to disclosures of PHI that relate
primarily to military and veteran activity.
                     (p)       Workers' Compensation - I f you are involved in a Worker's Compensation claim,
the Practice may be required to disclose your PHI to an individual or entify that is part of the Worker's
Compensation system.
                     (q)       National Security and Intelligence Activities - The Practice may disclose your PHI
in order to provide authorized governmental officials with necessary intelligence information for national
securify activities and purposes authorized by law.
                     (r)       Military and Veterans - I f you are a member of the armed forces, the Practice may
disclose your PHI as required by the military command authorities.


APPOINTMENT R E M I N D E R
          The Practice may, from time to time, contact you to provide appointment reminders or information
about freatment alternatives or other health-related benefits and services that may be of interest to you. The
following appointment reminders are used by the Practice: a) a postcard mailed to you at the address provided
by you; and b) telephoning your home and leaving a message on your answering machine or with the individual
answering the phone.
DIRECTORY/SIGN-IN L O G
          The Practice maintains a directory and sign-in log for individuals seeking care and treatment in the
office. Directory and sign-in log are located in a position where staff can readily see who is seeking care in the
office, as well as the individual's location within the Practice's office suite. This information may be seen by,
and is accessible to, others who are seeking care or services in the Practice's offices.
FAMILY/FRIENDS
          The Practice may disclose to your family member, other relative, a close personal friend, or any other
person identified by you, your PHI directly relevant to such person's involvement with your care or the payment
for your care. The Practice may also use or disclose your PHI to notify or assist in the notification (including
identifying or locating) a family member, a personal representative, or another person responsible for your care,
of your location, general condition or death. However, in both cases, the following conditions will apply:
                    (a)      I f you are present at or prior to the use or disclosure of your PHI, the Practice may
use or disclose your PHI if you agree, or if the Practice can reasonably infer from the circumstances, based on
the exercise of its professional judgment, that you do not object to the use or disclosure.
                    (b)      I f you are not present, the Practice will, in the exercise of professional judgment,
determine whether the use or disclosure is in your best interests and, i f so, disclose only the PHI that is directly
relevant to the person's involvement with your care.




                                                         3
