GREAT EXPECTATIONS
IMPROVING THE LOAN APPLICATION PROCESS FOR
SMALL BUSINESS BORROWERS




AUTHORS

Oliver Wyman
Coulter King, Engagement Manager
Peter Carroll, Partner

Fundera
Meredith Wood, VP of Content
Brayden McCarthy, VP of Strategy
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
The small business segment is a significant source of profit for financial institutions, and
lending is an important offering to deepen customer relationships. Oliver Wyman and
Fundera surveyed small business owners in late 2016 to better understand the preferences,
behaviors and experiences of this segment. Our research identified several areas in which
lenders of all types fall short of what borrowers told us they want. Borrowers said that the
search1 and application processes are complicated and time consuming, loan pricing and
terms are difficult to understand, and comparison shopping is arduous because it requires
multiple applications and comparison of inconsistently presented offers. These largely
unaddressed customer needs create opportunities for lenders to differentiate themselves.

In addition, our research confirmed that banks generally lag behind FinTech lenders
in creating a satisfying borrowing experience across factors like application length,
communication of next steps, and time to approve loan applications. Indeed, borrowers
from traditional institutions were about twice as likely to be frustrated by these aspects of
the application process as borrowers from alternative lenders. However, alternative lenders’
high cost of funds leads to higher pricing that frustrates borrowers. If alternative lenders
begin to develop stable, low cost funding sources, banks might need to shore up their
relative weakness across most elements of customer experience. Even if this threat does not
materialize, banks should want to invest in customer experience improvements to gain an
advantage over their peers.




1 The “search” process can include activities like identifying lenders and assessing their reputation, evaluating potential loan products,
  and so on



                                                                                                                                             4
                                INTRODUCTION
                                The small business segment accounts for about half of GDP in the United States2 and
                                presents a significant opportunity for financial institutions. In relation to the banking sector,
                                Oliver Wyman estimates that the small business segment represents $36 BN in annual,
                                pre-tax accounting profit.3 While small business lending is often not a major profit source
                                for banks through the credit cycle, for many small businesses it is an essential offering that
                                complements other basic banking services (e.g., checking, deposits) and highly profitable
                                offerings like credit cards and merchant services. Indeed, two-thirds of small businesses
                                surveyed in 2014 reported that access to credit is important in choosing a primary bank, and
                                half of small businesses reported being likely to switch banks if denied credit.4


                                Exhibit 1: Size of consumer and small business banking profit pools
                                THROUGH-THE-CYCLE, PRE-TAX ACCOUNTING PROFIT



                                Small business banking            $36 BN
                                                                                                   Consumer accounts
                                                                                                     of SB customers
                                                                                                                                            Consumer banking
                                                                                                                                            customers only
                                     Consumer banking                         $76 BN                      $23 BN         $99 BN

                                                                                                                                            Small business customers

                                Note: Profits calculated with Oliver Wyman assumptions for small businesses with <250 employees
                                Source: Oliver Wyman Survey of Small Business Owners (Q2 2014), Oliver Wyman Survey of Consumer Finances (Q2 2015)




                                Banks dominate the small business customer base in providing loans and other banking
                                products, but they face increased competition from FinTech online lenders.5 These relatively
                                new entrants have built a competitive advantage focused on speed and a streamlined
                                application process. The earliest FinTechs in small business lending – most notably CAN
                                Capital – preceded the 2007-2008 financial crisis. OnDeck, Kabbage, Funding Circle and
                                many others emerged in the wake of the crisis, buoyed in part by historically low rates and
                                a pullback in lending by banks and credit unions. These challengers argued not only that
                                they addressed a shortfall in lending to segments of the market but also that they could
                                provide a superior borrower experience. Alternative lenders command only a small fraction
                                of the market, but they have demonstrated the potential for streamlined and digitized
                                application processes, faster underwriting, next-day funding and other customer experience
                                improvements.6 Meanwhile, banks have been slow to evolve their offerings or exploit their
                                advantages in full.

                                Despite their innovative approaches, alternative lenders have struggled to gain major
                                traction in this customer segment – in large part because their costs of funds are
                                2 US Small Business Administration
                                3 This segment represents $59.1 BN in annual, through-the-cycle, pre-tax accounting profit including the consumer accounts of small
                                  business banking customers
                                4 Oliver Wyman Survey of small business Owners (Q2 2014), Oliver Wyman Consumer Profit Pools. Through-the-cycle profits calculated
                                  with Oliver Wyman assumptions for Small Businesses with <250 employees
                                5 Though our survey used the term “online lender”, we use the terms “FinTech lender”, “alternative lender”, and “online lender”
                                  interchangeably in this paper
                                6 Innovative approaches to underwriting have helped to drive many of these customer experience improvements
Copyright © 2017 Oliver Wyman
substantially higher than those of deposit-taking institutions. To the extent that alternative
lenders develop stable and low cost sources of capital, they will be able to price loans more
competitively and reduce the advantage currently held by banks. We therefore anticipate
that banks will need to compete more energetically on customer experience. Banks will
retain some powerful advantages – including a larger existing customer base, broader name
recognition (at least for regional and national players) and a physical distribution network
that many customers value. However, we anticipate that they will face more pressure to
modernize the customer experience than they have to date.

Against this backdrop, Oliver Wyman and Fundera surveyed nearly 400 small business
owners in late 2016 to better understand the preferences, behaviors and experiences of this
important segment. Our survey focused specifically on the lending experience and included
small business owners both from the Fundera customer base and the broader population
(via a market research company).

Our research confirmed that banks generally lag behind FinTech lenders in creating a
satisfying borrowing experience. More interestingly, we identified several areas in which all
lenders fall short of what borrowers told us they want. These unmet needs are opportunities
for differentiation.


A HIGH FRICTION EXPERIENCE
Only one quarter of respondents said they were dissatisfied with their recent borrowing
experience. However, they did not seem to be unduly impressed either. Just 22% said that
their loan application experience “exceeded expectations”. In particular, respondents
suggested that traditional lenders have lagged in creating a strong customer experience.
Borrowers expressed three related types of complaints:
1. Obtaining a loan takes too long
2. Lenders have not digitized the process sufficiently
3. The process remains high friction

1. OBTAINING A LOAN TAKES TOO LONG
Many borrowers said the process of obtaining a loan was lengthy. They reported spending a
lot of time on loan search, application and documentation compilation processes.

Small business lenders have proliferated, so borrowers must choose from a wide range of
products. Perhaps as a result, over two-thirds of business owners reported spending at least
three hours searching for information on their most recent business loan, and over one-third
spent more than six hours. This includes simply the time spent to find a reputable provider
and compare loan products, not any part of the application process itself.

Borrowers also reported that applying was time consuming. Close to a quarter of borrowers
from traditional lenders called the application length “frustrating” or “very frustrating”.
In addition, borrowers spent a large amount of time collecting documentation: half of
borrowers reported that it took over two hours just to collect the necessary documents,
and one-third said it took at least five hours. We observe that many institutions have not
                                                                                                 6
                                streamlined their application processes to request only the information and documentation
                                they truly need, resulting in onerous documentation gathering requirements.

                                Finally, most respondents said it took days to receive approval after submitting an
                                application and then to receive funds after approval.7 Online lenders tend to complete these
                                steps much more quickly with more automated underwriting processes.8

                                2. LENDERS HAVE NOT DIGITIZED THE PROCESS SUFFICIENTLY
                                While most banks and credit unions allow small businesses to complete some of the loan
                                application process online or over the phone, they lag behind online lenders in offering these
                                capabilities. The majority of borrowers from national banks reported that they were unable
                                to complete the entire application process online (i.e., they needed to visit a branch or mail
                                physical documents). Borrowers from smaller banks and credit unions reported that those
                                institutions were even less likely to have developed these processes.


                                Exhibit 2: Reported ability for borrowers to complete loan application online or by phone
                                                      79%




                                                                                                                           46%
                                         43%
                                                                                    38%
                                                                                                                    31%                            Online lenders
                                                                             26%
                                                17%                                       18%                                                      Regional/local banks
                                                                                                                                                   and credit unions
                                                                                                                                  3%
                                                                                                                                                   National banks
                                    Able to complete loan             Able to complete some but              Not able to complete any of
                                  application entirely online          not all of loan application                loan application
                                       and over phone                   online and over phone                   online or over phone


                                Source: Oliver Wyman and Fundera Small Business Borrowing Experience Survey



                                This is an important shortcoming in the borrower experience with traditional lenders. While
                                some borrowers prefer to use the branch to apply, we saw a strong preference for digital
                                channels across many aspects of the application process. Unsurprisingly, younger borrowers
                                were the most likely to prefer these digital solutions. For example, nearly all borrowers under
                                the age of 35 expressed a preference for submitting documents online,9 rather than by mail
                                or at a branch.

                                Given these borrower preferences, lenders should enable customers to use these channels.
                                In addition, lenders that have digitized parts of the application process should continue to
                                improve the experience by allowing customers to do even more online.

                                7 Oliver Wyman has found that the end-to-end process can take weeks, even for smaller and less complex loans
                                8 The Federal Reserve likewise has found that the loan application process is time consuming. Firms spend an average of 24 total hours
                                  applying for credit, according to the 2014 Joint Small Business Credit Report produced by the Federal Reserve Banks of New York, Atlanta,
                                  Cleveland, and Philadelphia
                                9 This included options for transmission through the lender’s website, via email or by granting one-time permission to the lender to
                                  retrieve information directly
Copyright © 2017 Oliver Wyman
3. THE PROCESS REMAINS HIGH FRICTION
Even for minor aspects of the borrowing experience, online lenders tended to outperform
traditional lenders. For example, borrowers from online lenders were half as likely to report
being frustrated by not understanding next steps in the loan application process, navigating
the application website or completing signature requirements.


Exhibit 3: Borrowers reporting aspect of obtaining a small business loan was frustrating or
very frustrating


                                                                                      49%
    Cost of loan offered                                                                          Traditional lenders outperforming
                                                         21%



     Filling out separate                                                  34%
             applications                                           28%



         Understanding                                              28%                             Inconclusive or no advantage
         loan’s fine print                                         27%



      Availability of live                       13%
         loan specialist                          14%



    Gathering required                                       23%
           documents                                                 29%



          Wet signature                6%
          requirements                           12%



             Navigating                6%
    application website                          12%



                                            9%
    Time from approval                                                                              Online lenders outperforming
      to funds received                                18%



Understanding stage in                       11%
process and next steps                                   21%



                                             11%
   Length of application
                                                             22%



  Time from application                     10%
                                                                                                                  Traditional lenders
            to approval                                        24%

                                                                                                                  Online lenders

Note: “Filling out separate applications” refers to completing a new loan application, either for each lender or for each loan product from
the same lender
Source: Oliver Wyman and Fundera Small Business Borrowing Experience Survey

                                                                                                                                              8
                                   However, several opportunities clearly remain for FinTechs and bank lenders alike to
                                   improve their customer experience: completing separate applications is a common source
                                   of frustration for customers of both online and traditional lenders, loan specialists are not
                                   always available when borrowers want to speak with them and understanding the loan offer
                                   is a challenge across lenders. Many of these relate to improving transparency and openness,
                                   which we discuss in the following section.


                                   THE NEED FOR TRANSPARENCY
                                   Borrowers wanted not only a better process but also clearer and more accessible
                                   information. These findings are consistent with those of the Federal Reserve’s Small Business
                                   Credit Survey, which found that lack of transparency was a leading reason for dissatisfaction
                                   even among successful applicants.


Exhibit 4: Reasons for dissatisfaction among employer firms dissatisfied with lender

                                                                                                                                                      High interest rate

                                                                                                                                                      Unfavorable
            48%                                          47%                                         49%                                              repayment terms
                   44% 44%                                            45%
                                                               42%

                                                                                                                                33%                   Long wait for
                                                                                                                                                      credit decision
                                                                                                            26%

                                                                                                                  17% 19%                             Difficult application
                                                                                                                                                      process
                                 6%     6%
                                                                             3%     3%
                                                                                                                                                      Lack of
                                                                                                                                                      transparency
                      Large bank                                  Small bank                                 Online lender

Note: Large banks were characterized as those with at least $10 BN in total deposits, and online lenders were defined as nonbank alternative and marketplace lenders, such as
Lending Club, OnDeck, CAN Capital and PayPal Working Capital. Note that this survey analyzed employer firms only, so the population is not directly comparable to that which
we surveyed
Source: Federal Reserve Small Business Credit Survey 2016 (April 2017)




                                   There were two themes to the transparency challenge. First, customers sometimes struggled
                                   to understand the terms of individual offers. Second, they encountered friction when trying
                                   to obtain and compare offers from multiple lenders.


                                   READING THE FINE PRINT
                                   Many borrowers reported that it was difficult to understand the terms of an offer of credit.
                                   For example, understanding the total cost of a loan can be challenging, given the many
                                   drivers of cost: interest rate, origination fees, guaranty fees,10 and prepayment penalties,
                                   to name a few examples. As a result, respondents strongly favored (85%) a standardized
                                   disclosure to help them understand a given loan’s cost and terms, and also help them
                                   compare multiple offers.


                                   10 For loans backed by the Small Business Administration. Lenders may choose to pass this cost onto the borrower
Copyright © 2017 Oliver Wyman
The availability of knowledgeable loan specialists improved the experience. 90% of
borrowers reported interacting with a loan specialist during the application process, and
only 15% would have preferred a loan process that did not require interacting with a human
loan specialist. Younger borrowers were more likely than others to prefer a process that did
not require such interaction, but even they were divided. It seems that while many borrowers
prefer online options for much of the application process, access to human specialists
remains valuable.


SHOP ’TIL YOU DROP
Across lenders and age groups, borrowers shopped for multiple offers. More than 60% of
borrowers from traditional financial institutions and 79% of those borrowing from online
lenders said that they considered at least two loan offers.11 Many seemed to do so because
it was difficult to compare lenders during the search process. Four in ten respondents said it
was “difficult” or “very difficult” to find a lender that offered the best terms.

Yet searching and completing multiple applications were time consuming activities. Nearly
half of those who applied for multiple loans spent over six hours searching for information
alone, and over one-third spent more than five hours applying for loans. Borrowers then
struggled to compare offers, since lenders present terms differently.12 Inconsistency in offer
presentation may contribute to respondents’ broadly positive perception of brokers, who
can help customers interpret loan offers.

As a result of these challenges, nearly all borrowers who applied for multiple loans said that
standardized applications and offer presentations would be valuable.


PRICING AS A COMPETITIVE LYNCHPIN
Although alternative lenders are widely perceived to offer a superior customer
experience, they fall short in pricing. Several factors may contribute to the higher costs of
alternative lenders:
•• Most importantly, alternative lenders have a higher cost of capital because they lack
   access to the stable, low cost deposits that banks and credit unions can use to fund their
   loans. The average cost of funds for a bank is around 0.06%,13 while OnDeck reported a
   5.9% cost of funds rate in the company’s Q1 2017 financial results.14
•• Alternative lenders serve many borrowers who struggle to access credit through banks
   (e.g., based on industry). These borrowers may find only higher cost loan options (no
   matter the lender) but borrow more frequently from alternative lenders.
•• Businesses that apply for credit from the still-new, FinTech lenders may be higher risk
   borrowers than those who apply for credit from other lenders or through other channels
   (consistent with the experience of credit card issuers in the early years of allowing online
   applications). Alternative lenders would need to price this risk into loans they originated.
11 This is consistent with research by the Federal Reserve (Federal Reserve Small Business Credit Survey 2016) that indicated that 61% of
   employer firms submitted at least two applications, and over one-third submitted three or more
12 These include the factor rate, simple interest rate, annual percentage rate, total or monthly interest payments, total loan cost (including
   interest costs but also origination fees and closing fees) and other terms and conditions
13 Based on the FDIC’s simple average of rates paid on savings by depository institutions
14 “OnDeck Reports First Quarter 2017 Financial Results.” OnDeck Capital (May 8, 2017)
                                                                                                                                                 10
                                The results of our survey reflect the large disparity in loan pricing. Only 11% of borrowers
                                from a bank or credit union reported that the rate was higher than expected, and twice
                                as many said it was lower than anticipated. By contrast, 58% of those who borrowed
                                from online lenders said that the cost of borrowing was higher than expected. Those who
                                borrowed from an online lender were far more likely to describe the cost of the loan offered
                                as “frustrating” or “very frustrating,” and cost was by far the most frequent source of
                                complaint for these consumers (see Exhibit 3).


                                Exhibit 5: Respondents’ perceptions of loan cost relative to expectations
                                                                       77%


                                                                                                         58%
                                            50%
                                                                                                                              47%
                                                                                                   40%
                                      36%                                                                                            37%
                                                                                                                                                  Higher than expected

                                                   14%           15%                                                   17%
                                                                                                                                                  Same as expected
                                                                               8%
                                                                                            2%
                                                                                                                                                  Lower than expected
                                      National banks         Regional/local banks           Online lenders                   Other
                                                               and credit unions

                                Source: Oliver Wyman and Fundera Small Business Borrowing Experience Survey




                                Many borrowers nonetheless borrow from FinTech lenders. Alternative lenders often provide
                                credit more quickly than banks or credit unions, lend to businesses that would be unable
                                to access credit through the banks15 and provide a more pleasant customer experience.
                                However, alternative lenders’ high cost of funds impedes their ability to compete with
                                incumbents and is a major driver of customer frustration.16 If alternative lenders begin
                                to develop stable, low cost funding sources, banks might need to shore up their relative
                                weakness in customer experience.17


                                IMPROVING THE LENDING EXPERIENCE
                                Although the challenges faced by banks and FinTechs vary, some of the root causes of poor
                                customer experience are common across many types of lenders. We have identified several
                                key areas for financial institutions to improve the borrower experience, ranging from features
                                and products to back-end processes.




                                15 For example, the Federal Reserve’s 2016 Small Business Credit Survey (April 2017) found that smaller-revenue employer firms had
                                   higher approvals at smaller banks (60% success) and online lenders (59% success) than at large banks (45% success)
                                16 In addition, Oliver Wyman has observed some alternative lenders charge significantly higher rates than can be explained just by cost of
                                   funding. However, this survey focused on borrower perceptions, rather than addressing actual differences in pricing
                                17 This compares banks and alternative lenders as categories. Even if this threat does not materialize, banks may need to invest in
                                   customer experience improvements to keep up with their peers



Copyright © 2017 Oliver Wyman
CREATE TRUST THROUGH TRANSPARENCY
Borrowers want greater transparency in the form of lower barriers to comparison shopping
and clearer information about loan offers. Opportunities for lenders span the products,
application process and the offer presentation. We suggest to:
1. Disclose loan terms clearly and consistently
2. Simplify the product suite
3. Streamline and standardize the application process

1. DISCLOSE LOAN TERMS CLEARLY AND CONSISTENTLY
The simplest and most obvious way to improve transparency is to ensure customers
understand the terms of their loan offers. Nearly one-third of borrowers indicated that
understanding their loan’s fine print and terms is “frustrating” or “very frustrating.” As noted
earlier, 85% of respondents said that a standardized disclosure for the cost of loans (i.e.,
lenders showing repayment terms and charges in a consistent manner) would help them
better understand and compare loans.

Many alternative lenders have taken steps in that direction, developing and submitting
themselves to standards designed to protect borrowers. In late 2015, a network of lenders,
brokers and advocates formed the Responsible Business Lending Coalition with a “Small
Business Borrowers’ Bill of Rights” to combat abusive practices in small business lending.
Signatories attested that they would comply with (or in the case of non-lenders, endorse) the
requirements of the bill of rights, which range from pricing transparency to fair collections.18

In 2016, lenders focused more specifically on pricing disclosure. Fundera launched a
disclosure box initiative to promote pricing transparency.19 Then the Innovative Lending
Platform Association (which began with the three largest US online small business
lending platforms: OnDeck, Kabbage and CAN Capital) and Association for Enterprise
Opportunity introduced a “pricing disclosure and comparison tool focused on empowering
small businesses to better assess and compare finance options.”20 Their SMART Box
(“Straightforward Metrics Around Rate and Total cost”) is a supplemental disclosure to
create standards around pricing metrics.

Small business lending lacks many of the disclosure requirements that exist for consumer
credit. The Truth in Lending Act does not impose disclosure requirements on credit extended
to businesses, and small business lending lacks the required disclosures of some forms of
consumer credit like credit cards (i.e., the “Schumer box”). Absent these requirements,
lenders can build trust by helping borrowers better understand their loan terms voluntarily.




18 Small Business Borrowers’ Bill of Rights website, produced by the Responsible Business Lending Coalition
19 Peter Renton, “Fundera Disclosure Box Initiative Promotes Responsible Small Business Lending.” Lend Academy (September 13, 2016)
20 “Nation’s Top Online Small Business Lending Platforms Unveil SMART Box™.” OnDeck (October 24, 2016)



                                                                                                                                      12
                                2. SIMPLIFY THE PRODUCT SUITE
                                Small business owners face a plethora of credit and financing options, including term loans,
                                SBA loans,21 lines of credit, invoice financing, equipment loans and personal loans used
                                for a business purpose. The proliferation of products creates optionality, and lenders and
                                financing companies often try to help match borrowers to appropriate products. However,
                                product proliferation comes with certain costs from borrower friction (it can be challenging
                                for borrowers to evaluate so many different credit and financing options, particularly when
                                lenders and financing companies use different names to describe the same products) to
                                reduced secondary market activity, so it requires justification.

                                We contend that small business credit and financing (excluding real estate) typically falls
                                into one of three basic forms, so much of the product proliferation may be only incrementally
                                valuable to borrowers:
                                1. Term loans in which businesses borrow a lump sum, receive the principal at once and
                                   pay it back over a specific period of time. Some of these loans are asset-based (such as
                                   equipment loans), while others are unsecured.
                                2. Lines of credit that allow borrowers to utilize and pay only for the amount of credit that
                                   is needed. Credit automatically renews as debts are paid off, and lines of credit can be
                                   asset-based (as in the case of inventory financing) or not.
                                3. Merchant cash advances that solve for temporary liquidity shortages by allowing
                                   business owners to sell a portion of their future card transactions. Merchant cash
                                   advances differ from secured lines of credit in several key respects: they tend to be
                                   small dollar and high APR, are repaid daily and require a distinct financing
                                   administration platform.

                                As a result, we believe that lenders can standardize product types and terms to make it easier
                                for borrowers to understand and compare their small business credit and financing options,
                                just as lenders increasingly have standardized terms for residential mortgages over time.

                                3. STREAMLINE AND STANDARDIZE THE APPLICATION PROCESS
                                Finally, many borrowers reported that comparing offers is important, but not all complete
                                multiple applications. This may be because varying application forms and documentation
                                requirements make applying for credit at multiple financial institutions difficult.

                                Platforms like Fundera and Credit Karma help to address this challenge by prequalifying
                                customers for offers from a range of lenders. In addition, lenders should standardize the
                                application process to make it easier for borrowers to apply. For example, Fannie Mae and
                                Freddie Mac produced the Uniform Residential Loan Application (known as Form 1003 by
                                Fannie Mae and Form 65 by Freddie Mac). Mortgage lenders have widely adopted the 1003
                                as a standard application form.

                                Though there is less impetus to standardize small business credit, this example
                                demonstrates how the industry can converge around standards that can create transparency
                                for borrowers, secondary market participants and more. And while standardization


                                21 The Small Business Administration participates in a number of loan programs designed for business owners who may have trouble
                                   qualifying for a traditional bank loan
Copyright © 2017 Oliver Wyman
requires coordination among lenders, lenders also can unilaterally simplify their own loan
applications to lower the costs of applying.


DIGITIZE THE PROCESS – BUT WITH CARE
Digitization presents opportunities for banks and FinTech lenders alike to improve
the customer experience and lower costs (e.g., through lower customer service
utilization and the reduction of manual loan fulfillment processes). Though digitization
opportunities in lending could be the subject of an entire separate paper, we identify a few
basic opportunities:
•• Invest in customer-facing digital solutions that reduce friction – Individually
   incremental additions like remote document capture or clearer updates as to the status
   of an application can significantly improve the experience in the aggregate.
•• Automate the underwriting of lower risk loans – Banks can underwrite low-risk loans
   automatically to provide businesses with quicker access to capital and free up resources
   to evaluate higher risk loans. The use of merchant account and/or DDA (demand deposit
   account) cash flow patterns to derive risk insights can facilitate this, and alternative
   lenders like OnDeck Capital now use this data in their underwriting process.22
•• Recognize when digitization is not the solution – In updating their approach to the
   small business segment, lenders should resist the temptation to treat every business
   owner like a “digital native.” For example, a minority of borrowers preferred an
   application process that eliminated interaction with a human loan specialist entirely.23


ADDRESS THE LESS OBVIOUS DRIVERS OF
CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE
Lenders addressing customer experience issues might focus on the parts of the process that
are most visible to customers. However, cosmetic changes alone are insufficient and may
mask the root causes of a poor borrower experience. New FinTech players can define the
customer experience upfront and develop a supporting infrastructure that accommodates
this vision. Banks and credit unions often face legacy infrastructure, processes and cultures
that impede this execution. Though the specific challenges vary by lender, some of these
hidden barriers to better customer experience include:
•• Technical entropy – Traditional financial institutions often struggle to adapt because
   of legacy technology that is ill equipped to meet new business needs. Banks’ back-end
   systems are encumbered by disparate “spaghetti” systems, incongruent processes and
   poor scaling to growth and demand, all of which generate friction and inhibit innovation.
•• Legacy processes – Many institutions’ processes are inefficient and result in worse
   service provided to borrowers. Challenges can include exacting documentation
   requirements (sometimes coupled with manual collection), lack of automation or too
   frequent manual reviews and time consuming underwriting approaches.
•• Limited dedicated resources – Within banks, the small business organization tends
   to lack the dedicated staff and other resources that the Consumer or Commercial
   businesses maintain. For example, banks sometimes leverage product development or
22 Peter Carroll and Ben Hoffman, “Financing Small Businesses: How ‘New-Form Lending’ Will Reshape Banks’ Small Business Strategies.”
   Oliver Wyman (2013)
23 Nearly all borrowers over the age of 45 had no preference or preferred to speak with a human loan specialist. Those under 45 were
   about evenly split between those who would have or would not have preferred a process where they avoided speaking with a human
   loan specialist. Lenders will need to adapt to evolving preferences as this segment becomes an increasing share of the small business
   lending market. However, even that borrower group is by no means homogenous                                                             14
                                     other resources from other businesses, rather than maintain their own small business
                                     capabilities. This can contribute to small business borrowing excessively from the
                                     Consumer and Commercial businesses, even when that is not appropriate.

                                Lenders first must recognize where they fall short in the customer experience they create.
                                But equally importantly, they should understand the barriers to change, many of which
                                the borrower never sees. Although these issues are most pronounced at banks and credit
                                unions, some FinTech lenders are susceptible to these challenges, as well.

                                                                                               *****

                                The small business lending experience represents an important opportunity for lenders from
                                banks to FinTech companies. For retail banks, lending is a relationship anchor for acquiring
                                and retaining small business customers. Although many retail banks struggle to profit from
                                small business loans, these offerings can attract higher profit card, merchant services,
                                checking and deposits opportunities. While banks benefit greatly from their lower cost of
                                capital, their pricing moat will become less durable if alternative lenders acquire more stable
                                funding sources, so customer experience will become a more important part of their value
                                propositions.24

                                For lenders in the FinTech space, delighting the customer is necessary to overcome the
                                advantages of traditional lenders. Incumbent financial institutions count among their
                                advantages cost, brand recognition, physical distribution networks and existing customer
                                relationships. True differentiation in customer experience is essentially a prerequisite for
                                FinTech lenders to overcome these advantages and compete effectively with one another.
                                Since some borrowers’ needs remain unmet by any lender, these opportunities clearly exist.




                                24 Recent applications by SoFi and Square to become industrial loan companies represent early efforts by FinTech companies to develop
                                   such funding sources



Copyright © 2017 Oliver Wyman
ABOUT OLIVER WYMAN
Oliver Wyman is a global leader in management consulting that combines deep industry knowledge with specialized
expertise in strategy, operations, risk management, and organization transformation.

ABOUT FUNDERA
Fundera is an online marketplace for small business loans that allows small business owners to apply to 30 lenders with
one easy common application. Small business owners can come to Fundera for any of their financing needs, from credit
cards to SBA loans and everything in between.

Fundera replaces small business loan brokers with software and algorithms, making the process faster and easier to
navigate. Since launching in 2014, Fundera has raised $20 MM in equity financing. To date, Fundera has helped over
5,500 small business owners secure over $350 MM in financing on its platform.


ABOUT THE AUTHORS
Coulter King, Engagement Manager, Oliver Wyman
coulter.king@oliverwyman.com

Peter Carroll, Partner, Oliver Wyman
peter.carroll@oliverwyman.com

Meredith Wood, VP of Content, Fundera
meredith@fundera.com

Brayden McCarthy, VP of Strategy, Fundera
brayden@fundera.com



www.oliverwyman.com




Copyright © 2017 Oliver Wyman
All rights reserved. This report may not be reproduced or redistributed, in whole or in part, without the written permission of Oliver Wyman and
Oliver Wyman accepts no liability whatsoever for the actions of third parties in this respect.
The information and opinions in this report were prepared by Oliver Wyman. This report is not investment advice and should not be relied on for such
advice or as a substitute for consultation with professional accountants, tax, legal or financial advisors. Oliver Wyman has made every effort to use
reliable, up-to-date and comprehensive information and analysis, but all information is provided without warranty of any kind, express or implied.
Oliver Wyman disclaims any responsibility to update the information or conclusions in this report. Oliver Wyman accepts no liability for any loss
arising from any action taken or refrained from as a result of information contained in this report or any reports or sources of information referred
to herein, or for any consequential, special or similar damages even if advised of the possibility of such damages. The report is not an offer to buy
or sell securities or a solicitation of an offer to buy or sell securities. This report may not be sold without the written consent of Oliver Wyman.
