                                                 CREDIT UNION LOAN APPLICATION FORM
credit union(Republic of Ireland)
  Please read these notes carefully before filling out this form.
  Please answer all questions on the form. Write NONE where appropriate. In order to enable your Credit Committee or Credit Officer to deal promptly with your application, the
  questions should be answered as fully as possible. Please note in accordance with the registered rules of the credit union no loan shall be made to a member who is under the
  age of eighteen and neither is nor has been married unless an indemnity is provided by the member's parent or guardian or by a person approved by the board of directors.
  This loan application does not relate to the purchase of property or land.

  To:                                                                                                                                          Credit Union Limited.
  *Mr/Mrs/Ms (circle as appropriate) *Name:
  •Home address:Marital Status: Single/Married/Separated/Widowed/Divorced (delete whichever
                                                                                   *Eircode:/. does not apply)
  •Date of birth:                                                                               No. of dependents (including children):
  **PPSNo                                                                                     Credit Union Membership Number:
  Home Telephone No.:Mobile No.:Joint Account Number (if any)
  Email address:                                                                                Date of Loan Application:

  •Denotes items of personal data requested for the purposes of the Central Credit Register - see notice below.
  "PPSN only required for reportable loans and for reportable loan applications.


NOTICE: I
AGREEMENTS OF €500 AND ABOVE TO THE CENTRAL CREDIT REGISTER. THIS INFORMATION WILL BE HELD ON THE CENTRAL CREDIT REGISTER AND MAY BE USED BY
OTHER LENDERS WHEN MAKING DECISIONS ON YOUR CREDIT APPLICATIONS AND CREDIT AGREEMENTS.

  The Central Credit Register is owned and operated by the Central Bank of Ireland. For more information see www.centralcreditregister.ie

  FOR INDUSTRIAL CREDIT UNIONS ONLY
  Staff No.:                                                      Dept:;                                                                Tel.Extn.
 Total salary deduction per week /month /other* (Delete whichever does not apply): €
  •See also separate salary deduction agreement



  I hereby apply for a loan of.fifor a period of.....weeks/months/years (delete whichever does not apply) for the following purpose;..


  I propose to repay this loan by instalments of not less than €plus interest/including interest (delete whichever does not apply) in the following manner, by
  instalments that are weekly/fortnightly/monthly/other (please specify) as will be secured by any attached shares and deposits held as security, the lien that the
  credit union has over all shares and deposits in my account, and any other agreed security.
  Is a Guarantor required as part of this loan application? ? If so please ask that they make contact with the Credit Union to ensure that they complete a guarantee agreement.
  Other Security to be offered?:




  ACCOUNT DETAILS
  Share Balance: fi                                                                                          Existing loan balance (if any):.
  Deposit Balance (if any):                                                                                       Amount applied for: €
                                                                                                                     New total loan balance: €




  EMPLOYMENT DETAILS
  Status: (self employed / employee / contract / homemaker /student / retired / unemployed) (delete whichever does not apply)
   Occupation                                                                                                     Length of service with present employer:...
                                                                                                                     Salary (weekly/monthly) (net pay): €
   Name and address of present employer:                                                                           Average weekly/monthly overtime/bonus (net): €
                                                                          v                                         Other Payments: €
                                                                                                                     Other income (specify):
                                                                                                                     (include other household income if applicable)
   Tel. No.:
                                                                                                                      Outlays (weekly/monthly); state average amount: €
   I consent to the credit union contacting me at my place of employment during working hours in respect of this loan application and any credit agreement or otherwise in

   connection with my account

   Signature:.

©ILCUS010D 07/2017
HOUSING DETAILS
Type of Accommodation: Owner? Tenant / Living with Parents / Other (please specify):Mortgage: Yes / No (delete whichever does not apply)
                                                                                             Name and Address of Mortgage Company:

(delete whichever does not apply)
Amount of rent (if any):
How long at present address:'
Previous address (if less than 3 years at present address):Amount of mortgage: (original amount): €
                            ,Term of mortgage
                                                         :Year of issue
                                                                                              Balance: €




TO BE COMPLETED IF APPLICATION IS FOR HOUSE REPAIRS / IMPROVEMENTS
Address at which work is to be carried out:Will the member gb on bridging finance?
                                                                                              If so, for how long?
                                                                                              Commencing when?
                                                                               ,Financed by?
Nature of work:Has provision been made to meet (if so, what?).
                                                                                              (i) Professional fees?


Total cost of proposed work: €
Has builder estimate been obtained?
How is balance to be financed?(ii) House furnishing?..

Source:
Amount:
Repayments:,..
Has the loan been approved?



LIST OF OTHER CREDITORS/DEBTS
Please now list all other debts you currently have with any other credit union, bank or loan agency either as borrower, or guarantor. The statements made herein are made
for the purpose of obtaining the loan, by signing this form you are declaring that they are true to the best of your knowledge and belief.
List all debts, such as loans, including car loans, hire purchase instalments, banks, overdrafts, visa/access/credit cards, furniture accounts, wedding loan, holiday loan, housing
finance etc.):
Name of CreditorOriginal DebtBalance DueAmount & Frequency of Payments




 By signing below you are confirming that you have reviewed this application and the details provided by you are true to the best of your knowledge and belief.


 Signature of loan applicant.::'.


 Date:


 Witnessed by:



WARNING: IF YOU DO NOT MEET THE REPAYMENTS ON YOUR CREDIT AGREEMENT, YOUR ACCOUNT WILL GO INTO ARREARS. THIS MAY AFFECT YOUR CREDIT RATING,
WHICH MAY LIMIT YOUR ABILITY TO ACCESS CREDIT IN THE FUTURE.


WARNING: YOUR HOME IS AT RISK IF YOU DO NOT KEEP UP PAYMENTS ON A MORTGAGE OR ANY OTHER LOAN SECURED ON IT.
INFORMATION ON HOW WE USE YOUR PERSONAL DATA
Where there are multiple loan applicants - this page should be copied and signed by each party to the loan.'

Who we are:^Credit union ("The Credit Union")

Address:'
Contact in respect of Data Protection:'.

This notice is to provide you with information in respect of the processing of your personal data (as defined in the Data Protection Acts, 1988 and 2003 (the "DPA") by the Credit
Union in relation to your application for a loan from us and to the subsequent administration of your loan. You also have a right under Section 71 of the Credit Union Act, 1997
as amended, subject to exceptions listed in the Section, that any information that concerns an account or transaction of yours with the Credit Union may not be disclosed by the
Credit Union without your consent.

What data is processed?
The Credit Union will collect and process personal data to include your name(s), contact details, date of birth, PPSN (in the case where a loan application or agreement is
reportable to the Central Credit Register) account number, and any other information providejlty you in the application form and any other information relating to you which is
held by the Credit Union."i

The purposes of processing your personal data in respect of your loan

The Credit Union will use your personal data to assist it in carrying out the following:

?Assessing your loan application and determining your creditworthiness for a loan.

?Verifying the information provided by you in the application.

?Where applicable, to facilitate the provision of loan protection insurance.

?Conducting credit searches and making submissions to Irish Credit Bureau and the Central Credit Register.

?Administering the loan, including where necessary, to take steps to recover the loan or enforce any security taken as part of the loan.

?We may use credit scoring techniques and other automated decision making systems to either partially or fully assess your application.

?Meeting legal and compliance obligations and requirements under the Rules of the Credit Union.

?Providing updates on our services by way of directly marketing to you.

Retention:
The Credit Union is sometimes obliged to retain your personal data. Where your data is retained it will be kept in accordance with the Credit Union's Retention Policy. Please
contact the Credit Union should you wish to receive a copy of same.

Security
The Credit Union is obliged under the DPA to have certain security measures in places in order to protect your personal data. The Credit Union has taken the necessary
measures to have those security measures in place.

Disclosure of personal data to third parties

Agents/Subcontractors
The Credit Union in carrying out its functions, may require the expertise or assistance of a third party contractor or agent. The necessary contracts ensuring the protection of
your personal data will be entered into.

Irish Credit Bureau (ICB)
The Irish Credit Bureau Limited (the "ICB") is a credit reference agency in Ireland. The ICB is owned and financed by its members made up of financial institutions which
includes individual credit unions. The bureau has an electronic library or database that contains information on the performance of credit agreements by borrowers.

A condition of a credit agreement between the credit union and a borrower is that the borrower agrees that the credit union may use the data supplied for the purpose of credit
checking. Consequently, where a borrower enters a credit agreement with the credit union, details of the borrower's performance in complying with the terms of the agreement
are input to the ICB "credit file" database, which may be accessed by all member institutions of the ICB. Each time an individual applies for credit with an ICB member, that ICB
member will access the ICB's credit file to ascertain the individual's performance under any previous credit agreements with other ICB members.

I consent to and authorise the credit union to process and retain data provided by me in respect of this application, and to record details of any transaction relating to a loan or
other credit which may result from this loan application with the ICB for a period of 5 years from the expiry date of the credit agreement
I acknowledge that the credit union and/or the ICB are permitted to disclose any material misstatement of fact contained in the application to its members and relevant bodies. I
consent to any such application being processed, recorded and retained by ICB.
The Memberfs) has the right to access personal data held about them by the ICB and to correct any inaccuracies in such data.



Signature of applicant:Date (DD/MM/YYYY)
The Central Credit Register (CCR)
The CCR is a credit referencing agency which is operated by the Central Bank of Ireland. Unlike the ICB, the Credit Union is obliged to make certain submissions to the CCR in
respect of personal and credit information about you under the Credit Reporting Act 2013. The member has certain rights in respect of the CCR. Please see centralcreditregister.
ie for more information.

Insurance
We act as an intermediary with ECCU Assurance DAC (ECCU) in respect of Loan Protection Insurance (LPT). In order to administer this service we will pass your details to ECCU.
This may include sensitive personal data such as data about your health. You will be provided with an opportunity at a later date to consent to the transfer of any sensitive data
from us to ECCU as your specific consent is required in that regard. (

Savings Protection Scheme
We are affiliated to the Irish League of Credit Unions (ILCU) and have the benefit of being a member of the ILCU Savings Protection Scheme (SPS). We may disclose information
in your application or in respect of any account or transaction of yours from the date of your original consent to authorised officers or employees of the Irish League of Credit
Unions for the purpose of fulfilling requirements under the SPS.

Debt Recovery
In the unfortunate case of having to recover this loan or enforce any security taken, certain personal-and financial details may be passed to our solicitor, debt collection agent or
private investigator to assist with same.

Audit
The Credit Union is required to engage both internal and external auditors. Auditors may require access to certain personal data in performing their function.

Your Rights
Please note that you have the right to access personal data held about you by the credit union and to correct any inaccuracies in such data. If you wish to avail of either of these
rights, please contact us at:




Receive obligatory notices by email
There are certain notices that credit unions are obliged to provide from time to time. Please provide your email address if you would like to receive these obligatory, non-
marketing communications by email (for example the AGM notice). This will assist the Credit Union in reducing its carbon foot print and will also reduce costs.


Email address:
The credit union maintains the right to contact members by such means as best available to it in relation to a non-performing loan or outstanding debt to the credit
union, including by text or email.

Keeping you informed: Direct Marketing
To improve our service to you, from time to time, the Credit Union would like to inform you of goods, services, competitions and or/ promotional offers available from the Credit Union.
The Credit Union may use different means when sending such marketing communications. Please indicate your consent or otherwise to being marketed using the below methods.

                           Yes        No

Post:                      ?•         ?           You have a right to notify us free of charge at any time of your right to refuse such marketing by writing to:
 Email:                    ?          ?
Text                       ?          ?
                                                   or by using the "opt-out" options in any marketing message we send you.
 Landline call:            ?          ?
 Mobile call:              ?          ?
 Signature of applicant:Date (DD/MM/YYYY):.




                                                                            FOR OFFICE USE ONLY
                           Loan considered by: Credit Officer/Credit Committee/Special Committee/Board of Directors (delete whichever is appropriate)

 On.'.... day of..../..........YearApproved by Board of Directors:
 we approved the loan of €;...-(Signature of Chairman):.....
 for'Member'(subject to the following conditions)Approved by Credit Officer:,
 ,....•....-.;.........(Signature of Credit Officer):,,
 Total loan approved: €Name of Guarantor/Parent/Guardian: Mr./Ms./Mrs

 Less RPI cancellation amount (if any): €
  Plus RPI Premium (if any):...,,,Address:...,,.,,..,...,.,.,.„. . ,.,„..,,..,.„..,... .„
Approved by Credit Committee:
(Signatures of Credit Committee)Dated:
;Entered in minutes of: Credit Committee/Special Committee/Board
 .„.,...„,.(delete whichever does not apply).
                                                7.-.Any other comments:

  Approved by Special Committee:,,....
  (Signature of Chairman)Entered in record book::..:...
