 SMALL BUSINESS PAYCHECK PROTECTION PROGRAM
The Paycheck Protection Program provides small businesses with funds to pay up to 8 weeks of
payroll costs including benefits. Funds can also be used to pay interest on mortgages, rent, and
utilities.

                                       Fully Forgiven
Funds are provided in the form of loans that will be fully forgiven when used for payroll costs,
interest on mortgages, rent, and utilities (due to likely high subscription, at least 75% of the
forgiven amount must have been used for payroll). Loan payments will also be deferred for six
months. No collateral or personal guarantees are required. Neither the government nor lenders
will charge small businesses any fees.

           Must Keep Employees on the Payroll—or Rehire Quickly
Forgiveness is based on the employer maintaining or quickly rehiring employees and
maintaining salary levels. Forgiveness will be reduced if full-time headcount declines, or if
salaries and wages decrease.

                              All Small Businesses Eligible
Small businesses with 500 or fewer employees—including nonprofits, veterans organizations,
tribal concerns, self-employed individuals, sole proprietorships, and independent contractors—
are eligible. Businesses with more than 500 employees are eligible in certain industries.

                                       When to Apply
Starting April 3, 2020, small businesses and sole proprietorships can apply. Starting April 10,
2020, independent contractors and self-employed individuals can apply. We encourage you to
apply as quickly as you can because there is a funding cap.

                                        How to Apply
You can apply through any existing SBA 7(a) lender or through any federally insured depository
institution, federally insured credit union, and Farm Credit System institution that is
participating. Other regulated lenders will be available to make these loans once they are
approved and enrolled in the program. You should consult with your local lender as to whether
it is participating. All loans will have the same terms regardless of lender or borrower. A list of
participating lenders as well as additional information and full terms can be found at
www.sba.gov.
     The Paycheck Protection Program is implemented by the Small Business
   Administration with support from the Department of the Treasury. Lenders
  should also visit www.sba.gov or www.coronavirus.gov for more information.
        PAYCHECK PROTECTION PROGRAM (PPP) INFORMATION SHEET:
                                         BORROWERS
The Paycheck Protection Program (“PPP”) authorizes up to $349 billion in forgivable loans to
small businesses to pay their employees during the COVID-19 crisis. All loan terms will be the
same for everyone.
The loan amounts will be forgiven as long as:
       The loan proceeds are used to cover payroll costs, and most mortgage interest, rent, and
        utility costs over the 8 week period after the loan is made; and
       Employee and compensation levels are maintained.
Payroll costs are capped at $100,000 on an annualized basis for each employee. Due to likely
high subscription, it is anticipated that not more than 25% of the forgiven amount may be for
non-payroll costs.
Loan payments will be deferred for 6 months.
When can I apply?
       Starting April 3, 2020, small businesses and sole proprietorships can apply for and
        receive loans to cover their payroll and other certain expenses through existing SBA
        lenders.
       Starting April 10, 2020, independent contractors and self-employed individuals can
        apply for and receive loans to cover their payroll and other certain expenses through
        existing SBA lenders.
       Other regulated lenders will be available to make these loans as soon as they are
        approved and enrolled in the program.
Where can I apply? You can apply through any existing SBA lender or through any federally
insured depository institution, federally insured credit union, and Farm Credit System institution
that is participating. Other regulated lenders will be available to make these loans once they are
approved and enrolled in the program. You should consult with your local lender as to whether it
is participating. Visit www.sba.gov for a list of SBA lenders.
Who can apply? All businesses – including nonprofits, veterans organizations, Tribal business
concerns, sole proprietorships, self-employed individuals, and independent contractors – with
500 or fewer employees can apply. Businesses in certain industries can have more than 500
employees if they meet applicable SBA employee-based size standards for those industries (click
HERE for additional detail).
For this program, the SBA’s affiliation standards are waived for small businesses (1) in the hotel
and food services industries (click HERE for NAICS code 72 to confirm); or (2) that are
franchises in the SBA’s Franchise Directory (click HERE to check); or (3) that receive financial
assistance from small business investment companies licensed by the SBA. Additional guidance
may be released as appropriate.
What do I need to apply? You will need to complete the Paycheck Protection Program loan
application and submit the application with the required documentation to an approved lender
that is available to process your application by June 30, 2020. Click HERE for the application.
What other documents will I need to include in my application? You will need to provide
your lender with payroll documentation.
Do I need to first look for other funds before applying to this program? No. We are waiving
the usual SBA requirement that you try to obtain some or all of the loan funds from other sources
(i.e., we are waiving the Credit Elsewhere requirement).
How long will this program last? Although the program is open until June 30, 2020, we
encourage you to apply as quickly as you can because there is a funding cap and lenders need
time to process your loan.
How many loans can I take out under this program? Only one.
What can I use these loans for? You should use the proceeds from these loans on your:
       Payroll costs, including benefits;
       Interest on mortgage obligations, incurred before February 15, 2020;
       Rent, under lease agreements in force before February 15, 2020; and
       Utilities, for which service began before February 15, 2020.
What counts as payroll costs? Payroll costs include:
       Salary, wages, commissions, or tips (capped at $100,000 on an annualized basis for each
        employee);
       Employee benefits including costs for vacation, parental, family, medical, or sick leave;
        allowance for separation or dismissal; payments required for the provisions of group
        health care benefits including insurance premiums; and payment of any retirement
        benefit;
       State and local taxes assessed on compensation; and
       For a sole proprietor or independent contractor: wages, commissions, income, or net
        earnings from self-employment, capped at $100,000 on an annualized basis for each
        employee.
Does the PPP cover paid sick leave?
Yes, the PPP covers payroll costs, which include employee benefits such as costs for parental,
family, medical, or sick leave. However, it is worth noting that the CARES Act expressly
excludes qualified sick and family leave wages for which a credit is allowed under sections 7001
and 7003 of the Families First Coronavirus Response Act (FFCRA) (Public Law 116–127).
Learn more about the FFCRA’s Paid Sick Leave Refundable Credit online.
How large can my loan be? Loans can be for up to two months of your average monthly
payroll costs from the last year plus an additional 25% of that amount. That amount is subject to
a $10 million cap. If you are a seasonal or new business, you will use different applicable time
periods for your calculation. Payroll costs will be capped at $100,000 annualized for each
employee.
How much of my loan will be forgiven? You will owe money when your loan is due if you use
the loan amount for anything other than payroll costs, mortgage interest, rent, and utilities
payments over the 8 weeks after getting the loan. Due to likely high subscription, it is anticipated
that not more than 25% of the forgiven amount may be for non-payroll costs.
You will also owe money if you do not maintain your staff and payroll.
       Number of Staff: Your loan forgiveness will be reduced if you decrease your full-time
        employee headcount.
       Level of Payroll: Your loan forgiveness will also be reduced if you decrease salaries and
        wages by more than 25% for any employee that made less than $100,000 annualized in
        2019.
       Re-Hiring: You have until June 30, 2020 to restore your full-time employment and
        salary levels for any changes made between February 15, 2020 and April 26, 2020.
How can I request loan forgiveness? You can submit a request to the lender that is servicing
the loan. The request will include documents that verify the number of full-time equivalent
employees and pay rates, as well as the payments on eligible mortgage, lease, and utility
obligations. You must certify that the documents are true and that you used the forgiveness
amount to keep employees and make eligible mortgage interest, rent, and utility payments. The
lender must make a decision on the forgiveness within 60 days.
What is my interest rate? 1.00% fixed rate.
When do I need to start paying interest on my loan? All payments are deferred for 6 months;
however, interest will continue to accrue over this period.
When is my loan due? In 2 years.
Can I pay my loan earlier than 2 years? Yes. There are no prepayment penalties or fees.
Do I need to pledge any collateral for these loans? No. No collateral is required.
Do I need to personally guarantee this loan? No. There is no personal guarantee requirement.
***However, if the proceeds are used for fraudulent purposes, the U.S. government will pursue
criminal charges against you.***
What do I need to certify? As part of your application, you need to certify in good faith that:
       Current economic uncertainty makes the loan necessary to support your ongoing
        operations.
       The funds will be used to retain workers and maintain payroll or to make mortgage,
        lease, and utility payments.
       You have not and will not receive another loan under this program.
       You will provide to the lender documentation that verifies the number of full-time
        equivalent employees on payroll and the dollar amounts of payroll costs, covered
    mortgage interest payments, covered rent payments, and covered utilities for the eight
    weeks after getting this loan.
   Loan forgiveness will be provided for the sum of documented payroll costs, covered
    mortgage interest payments, covered rent payments, and covered utilities. Due to likely
    high subscription, it is anticipated that not more than 25% of the forgiven amount may
    be for non-payroll costs.
   All the information you provided in your application and in all supporting documents
    and forms is true and accurate. Knowingly making a false statement to get a loan under
    this program is punishable by law.
   You acknowledge that the lender will calculate the eligible loan amount using the tax
    documents you submitted. You affirm that the tax documents are identical to those you
    submitted to the IRS. And you also understand, acknowledge, and agree that the lender
    can share the tax information with the SBA’s authorized representatives, including
    authorized representatives of the SBA Office of Inspector General, for the purpose of
    compliance with SBA Loan Program Requirements and all SBA reviews.
                                                          Paycheck Protection Program                                                 OMB Control No.: 3245-0407
                                                               Borrower Application Form                                               Expiration Date: 09/30/2020


    Check One:          Sole proprietor  Partnership
                                                  (      C-Corp  S-Corp  LLC
                                                                                                                 DBA or Tradename if Applicable
                        Independent contractor  Eligible self-employed individual
                        501(c)(3) nonprofit  501(c)(19) veterans organization
                        Tribal business (sec. 31(b)(2)(C) of Small Business Act)  Other

                                         Business Legal Name


                                          Business Address                                            Business TIN (EIN, SSN)              Business Phone
                                                                                                                                  (    )        -
                                                                                                         Primary Contact                   Email Address




    Average Monthly Payroll:         $                       x 2.5 + EIDL, Net of             $                        Number of Employees:
                                                             Advance (if Applicable)
                                                             Equals Loan Request:
    Purpose of the loan
    (select more than one):           ☐Payroll ☐Lease / Mortgage Interest ☐Utilities ☐Other (explain):__________________

                                                             Applicant Ownership
   List all owners of 20% or more of the equity of the Applicant. Attach a separate sheet if necessary.

                   Owner Name                                Title              Ownership %       TIN (EIN, SSN)                      Address




           If questions (1) or (2) below are answered “Yes,” the loan will not be approved.
                                                                 Question                                                                             Yes     No
      1.     Is the Applicant or any owner of the Applicant presently suspended, debarred, proposed for debarment, declared ineligible,              
             voluntarily excluded from participation in this transaction by any Federal department or agency, or presently involved in any
             bankruptcy?
                                                                                                                                                     ☐☐
      2.     Has the Applicant, any owner of the Applicant, or any business owned or controlled by any of them, ever obtained a direct or             ☐☐
             guaranteed loan from SBA or any other Federal agency that is currently delinquent or has defaulted in the last 7 years and
             caused a loss to the government?

      3.     Is the Applicant or any owner of the Applicant an owner of any other business, or have common management with, any other                ☐☐
             business? If yes, list all such businesses and describe the relationship on a separate sheet identified as addendum A.

      4.     Has the Applicant received an SBA Economic Injury Disaster Loan between January 31, 2020 and April 3, 2020? If yes,                     ☐☐
             provide details on a separate sheet identified as addendum B.

           If questions (5) or (6) are answered “Yes,” the loan will not be approved.
                                                                Question                                                                    Yes         No
      5.      Is the Applicant (if an individual) or any individual owning 20% or more of the equity of the Applicant subject
              to an indictment, criminal information, arraignment, or other means by which formal criminal charges are                       ☐           ☐
              brought in any jurisdiction, or presently incarcerated, or on probation or parole?
              Initial here to confirm your response to question 5 →

      6.      Within the last 5 years, for any felony, has the Applicant (if an individual) or any owner of the Applicant 1)
              been convicted; 2) pleaded guilty; 3) pleaded nolo contendere; 4) been placed on pretrial diversion; or 5) been
              placed on any form of parole or probation (including probation before judgment)?
                                                                                                                                             ☐ ☐
              Initial here to confirm your response to question 6 →

      7.      Is the United States the principal place of residence for all employees of the Applicant included in the                      ☐
              Applicant’s payroll calculation above?
                                                                                                                                                         ☐

      8.      Is the Applicant a franchise that is listed in the SBA’s Franchise Directory?                                                 ☐           ☐

                                                                            1
SBA Form 2483 (04/20)
                                                          Paycheck Protection Program
                                                             Borrower Application Form

 By Signing Below, You Make the Following Representations, Authorizations, and Certifications

 CERTIFICATIONS AND AUTHORIZATIONS
 I certify that:
          I have read the statements included in this form, including the Statements Required by Law and Executive Orders, and I understand them.
          The Applicant is eligible to receive a loan under the rules in effect at the time this application is submitted that have been issued by the
              Small Business Administration (SBA) implementing the Paycheck Protection Program under Division A, Title I of the Coronavirus
              Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act (CARES Act) (the Paycheck Protection Program Rule).
          The Applicant (1) is an independent contractor, eligible self-employed individual, or sole proprietor or (2) employs no more
              than the greater of 500 or employees or, if applicable, the size standard in number of employees established by the SBA in 13
              C.F.R. 121.201 for the Applicant’s industry.
          I will comply, whenever applicable, with the civil rights and other limitations in this form.
          All SBA loan proceeds will be used only for business-related purposes as specified in the loan application and consistent with the
              Paycheck Protection Program Rule.
          To the extent feasible, I will purchase only American-made equipment and products.
          The Applicant is not engaged in any activity that is illegal under federal, state or local law.
          Any loan received by the Applicant under Section 7(b)(2) of the Small Business Act between January 31, 2020 and April 3, 2020 was
              for a purpose other than paying payroll costs and other allowable uses loans under the Paycheck Protection Program Rule.

 For Applicants who are individuals: I authorize the SBA to request criminal record information about me from criminal justice agencies for the
 purpose of determining my eligibility for programs authorized by the Small Business Act, as amended.

 CERTIFICATIONS
 The authorized representative of the Applicant must certify in good faith to all of the below by initialing next to each one:

 _____      The Applicant was in operation on February 15, 2020 and had employees for whom it paid salaries and payroll taxes or paid independent
            contractors, as reported on Form(s) 1099-MISC.

 _____      Current economic uncertainty makes this loan request necessary to support the ongoing operations of the Applicant.

 _____      The funds will be used to retain workers and maintain payroll or make mortgage interest payments, lease payments, and utility payments,
            as specified under the Paycheck Protection Program Rule; I understand that if the funds are knowingly used for unauthorized purposes,
            the federal government may hold me legally liable, such as for charges of fraud.

 _____      The Applicant will provide to the Lender documentation verifying the number of full-time equivalent employees on the Applicant’s
            payroll as well as the dollar amounts of payroll costs, covered mortgage interest payments, covered rent payments, and covered utilities
            for the eight-week period following this loan.

 _____      I understand that loan forgiveness will be provided for the sum of documented payroll costs, covered mortgage interest payments,
            covered rent payments, and covered utilities, and not more than 25% of the forgiven amount may be for non-payroll costs.

 _____      During the period beginning on February 15, 2020 and ending on December 31, 2020, the Applicant has not and will not receive another
            loan under the Paycheck Protection Program.

 _____      I further certify that the information provided in this application and the information provided in all supporting documents and
            forms is true and accurate in all material respects. I understand that knowingly making a false statement to obtain a guaranteed loan
            from SBA is punishable under the law, including under 18 USC 1001 and 3571 by imprisonment of not more than five years and/or a
            fine of up to $250,000; under 15 USC 645 by imprisonment of not more than two years and/or a fine of not more than $5,000; and, if
            submitted to a federally insured institution, under 18 USC 1014 by imprisonment of not more than thirty years and/or a fine of not
            more than $1,000,000.

 _____      I acknowledge that the lender will confirm the eligible loan amount using required documents submitted. I understand,
            acknowledge and agree that the Lender can share any tax information that I have provided with SBA's authorized representatives,
            including authorized representatives of the SBA Office of Inspector General, for the purpose of compliance with SBA Loan
            Program Requirements and all SBA reviews.

  _________________________________________________________                                         ________________________
  Signature of Authorized Representative of Applicant                                               Date


  Print Name                                                                                       Title


                                                                          2
SBA Form 2483 (04/20)
                                                         Paycheck Protection Program
                                                            Borrower Application Form


 Purpose of this form:

 This form is to be completed by the authorized representative of the Applicant and submitted to your SBA Participating Lender. Submission of
 the requested information is required to make a determination regarding eligibility for financial assistance. Failure to submit the information
 would affect that determination.

 Instructions for completing this form:

 With respect to “purpose of the loan,” payroll costs consist of compensation to employees (whose principal place of residence is the United
 States) in the form of salary, wages, commissions, or similar compensation; cash tips or the equivalent (based on employer records of past tips
 or, in the absence of such records, a reasonable, good-faith employer estimate of such tips); payment for vacation, parental, family, medical, or
 sick leave; allowance for separation or dismissal; payment for the provision of employee benefits consisting of group health care coverage,
 including insurance premiums, and retirement; payment of state and local taxes assessed on compensation of employees; and for an
 independent contractor or sole proprietor, wage, commissions, income, or net earnings from self-employment or similar compensation.

 For purposes of calculating “Average Monthly Payroll,” most Applicants will use the average monthly payroll for 2019, excluding costs over
 $100,000 on an annualized basis for each employee. For seasonal businesses, the Applicant may elect to instead use average monthly payroll
 for the time period between February 15, 2019 and June 30, 2019, excluding costs over $100,000 on an annualized basis for each employee.
 For new businesses, average monthly payroll may be calculated using the time period from January 1, 2020 to February 29, 2020, excluding
 costs over $100,000 on an annualized basis for each employee.

 If Applicant is refinancing an Economic Injury Disaster Loan (EIDL): Add the outstanding amount of an EIDL made between January 31, 2020
 and April 3, 2020, less the amount of any “advance” under an EIDL COVID-19 loan, to Loan Request as indicated on the form.

 All parties listed below are considered owners of the Applicant as defined in 13 CFR § 120.10, as well as “principals”:

    For a sole proprietorship, the sole proprietor;
    For a partnership, all general partners, and all limited partners owning 20% or more of the equity of the firm;
    For a corporation, all owners of 20% or more of the corporation;
    For limited liability companies, all members owning 20% or more of the company; and
    Any Trustor (if the Applicant is owned by a trust).
  Paperwork Reduction Act – You are not required to respond to this collection of information unless it displays a currently valid OMB
  Control Number. The estimated time for completing this application, including gathering data needed, is 8 minutes. Comments about this time
  or the information requested should be sent to : Small Business Administration, Director, Records Management Division, 409 3rd St., SW,
  Washington DC 20416., and/or SBA Desk Officer, Office of Management and Budget, New Executive Office Building, Washington DC
  20503.
  Privacy Act (5 U.S.C. 552a) – Under the provisions of the Privacy Act, you are not required to provide your social security number. Failure to
  provide your social security number may not affect any right, benefit or privilege to which you are entitled. (But see Debt Collection Notice
  regarding taxpayer identification number below.) Disclosures of name and other personal identifiers are required to provide SBA with
  sufficient information to make a character determination. When evaluating character, SBA considers the person’s integrity, candor, and
  disposition toward criminal actions. Additionally, SBA is specifically authorized to verify your criminal history, or lack thereof, pursuant to
  section 7(a)(1)(B), 15 USC Section 636(a)(1)(B) of the Small Business Act (the Act).

  Disclosure of Information – Requests for information about another party may be denied unless SBA has the written permission of the
  individual to release the information to the requestor or unless the information is subject to disclosure under the Freedom of Information Act.
  The Privacy Act authorizes SBA to make certain “routine uses” of information protected by that Act. One such routine use is the disclosure of
  information maintained in SBA’s system of records when this information indicates a violation or potential violation of law, whether civil,
  criminal, or administrative in nature. Specifically, SBA may refer the information to the appropriate agency, whether Federal, State, local or
  foreign, charged with responsibility for, or otherwise involved in investigation, prosecution, enforcement or prevention of such violations.
  Another routine use is disclosure to other Federal agencies conducting background checks but only to the extent the information is relevant to
  the requesting agencies' function. See, 74 F.R. 14890 (2009), and as amended from time to time for additional background and other routine
  uses. In addition, the CARES Act, requires SBA to register every loan made under the Paycheck Protection Act using the Taxpayer
  Identification Number (TIN) assigned to the borrower.
  Debt Collection Act of 1982, Deficit Reduction Act of 1984 (31 U.S.C. 3701 et seq. and other titles) – SBA must obtain your taxpayer
  identification number when you apply for a loan. If you receive a loan, and do not make payments as they come due, SBA may: (1) report the
  status of your loan(s) to credit bureaus, (2) hire a collection agency to collect your loan, (3) offset your income tax refund or other amounts
  due to you from the Federal Government, (4) suspend or debar you or your company from doing business with the Federal Government, (5)
  refer your loan to the Department of Justice, or (6) foreclose on collateral or take other action permitted in the loan instruments.
  Right to Financial Privacy Act of 1978 (12 U.S.C. 3401) – The Right to Financial Privacy Act of 1978, grants SBA access rights to
  financial records held by financial institutions that are or have been doing business with you or your business including any financial

                                                                         3
SBA Form 2483 (04/20)
                                                          Paycheck Protection Program
                                                             Borrower Application Form
  institutions participating in a loan or loan guaranty. SBA is only required provide a certificate of its compliance with the Act to a financial
  institution in connection with its first request for access to your financial records. SBA's access rights continue for the term of any approved
  loan guaranty agreement. SBA is also authorized to transfer to another Government authority any financial records concerning an approved
  loan or loan guarantee, as necessary to process, service or foreclose on a loan guaranty or collect on a defaulted loan guaranty.
  Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552) – Subject to certain exceptions, SBA must supply information reflected in agency files and
  records to a person requesting it. Information about approved loans that will be automatically released includes, among other things, statistics
  on our loan programs (individual borrowers are not identified in the statistics) and other information such as the names of the borrowers (and
  their officers, directors, stockholders or partners), the collateral pledged to secure the loan, the amount of the loan, its purpose in general terms
  and the maturity. Proprietary data on a borrower would not routinely be made available to third parties. All requests under this Act are to be
  addressed to the nearest SBA office and be identified as a Freedom of Information request.
  Occupational Safety and Health Act (15 U.S.C. 651 et seq.) – The Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) can require
  businesses to modify facilities and procedures to protect employees. Businesses that do not comply may be fined, forced to cease operations,
  or prevented from starting operations. Signing this form is certification that the applicant, to the best of its knowledge, is in compliance with
  the applicable OSHA requirements, and will remain in compliance during the life of the loan.
  Civil Rights (13 C.F.R. 112, 113, 117) – All businesses receiving SBA financial assistance must agree not to discriminate in any business
  practice, including employment practices and services to the public on the basis of categories cited in 13 C.F.R., Parts 112, 113, and 117 of
  SBA Regulations. All borrowers must display the "Equal Employment Opportunity Poster" prescribed by SBA.
  Equal Credit Opportunity Act (15 U.S.C. 1691) – Creditors are prohibited from discriminating against credit applicants on the basis of race,
  color, religion, national origin, sex, marital status or age (provided the applicant has the capacity to enter into a binding contract); because all
  or part of the applicant's income derives from any public assistance program; or because the applicant has in good faith exercised any right
  under the Consumer Credit Protection Act.
  Debarment and Suspension Executive Order 12549; (2 CFR Part 180 and Part 2700) – By submitting this loan application, you certify
  that neither the Applicant or any owner of the Applicant have within the past three years been: (a) debarred, suspended, declared ineligible or
  voluntarily excluded from participation in a transaction by any Federal Agency; (b) formally proposed for debarment, with a final
  determination still pending; (c) indicted, convicted, or had a civil judgment rendered against you for any of the offenses listed in the
  regulations or (d) delinquent on any amounts owed to the U.S. Government or its instrumentalities as of the date of execution of this
  certification.




                                                                           4
SBA Form 2483 (04/20)
   Lending Institutions with headquarters within the Syracuse District Office 34-county coverage
   area* which hold an SBA Participation Agreement for the 7(a) Loan Guaranty Program
   (traditional SBA business loan program) - As of 3/31/2020
Adirondack Bank                                      AmeriCU Credit Union
Ballston Spa National Bank                           CFCU Community Credit Union
Bank of Richmondville                                Corning Federal Credit Union
Bank of Utica                                        Countryside Federal Credit Union
Carthage Federal Savings & Loan                      Directors Choice Credit Union
Cayuga Lake National Bank                            Empower Federal Credit Union
Champlain National Bank                              First Heritage Federal Credit Union
Chemung Canal Trust Company                          SeaComm Federal Credit Union
Community Bank, NA                                   SEFCU
First National Bank of Scotia                        Sunmark Credit Union
Fulton Savings Bank                                  Visions Federal Credit Union
Glens Falls National Bank &Trust Co.
Fund-Ex Solutions Group, LLC                         In addition, other lending institutions hold an
Gouverneur Savings & Loan Assoc.                     active SBA 7(a) Loan Participation Agreement and
Maple City Savings Bank, FSB                         have an office location with the Syracuse District
Massena Savings & Loan Assoc.                        Office coverage area:
National Bank of Coxsackie                           Bank of America
NBT Bank, NA                                         Berkshire Bank
New York Business Dev. Corp. aka Pursuit Lending     Citizens Bank
Pathfinder Bank                                      Five Star Bank
Pioneer Savings Bank                                 JPMorgan Chase Bank
Saratoga National Bank and Trust Co.                 KeyBank
Solvay Bank                                          Lyons National Bank
Steuben Trust Company                                M&T Bank
The Adirondack Trust Company                         TD Bank
The Bank of Greene County                            Seneca Savings
The Delaware National Bank of Delhi
The Elmira Savings Bank, FSB
The First National Bank of Dryden                   *COUNTIES OF: ALBANY, BROOME, CAYUGA, CHEMUNG,
The First National Bank of Groton                   CHENANGO, CLINTON, COLUMBIA, CORTLAND,
The North Country Savings Bank                      DELAWARE, ESSEX, FRANKLIN, FULTON, GREEN,
The Upstate National Bank                           HAMILTON, HERKIMER, JEFFERSON, LEWIS, MADISON,
Tioga State Bank                                    MONTGOMERY, ONEIDA, ONONDAGA, OSWEGO, OTSEGO,
                                                    RENSSELAER, SAINT LAWRENCE, SARATOGA,
Tompkins Trust Company
                                                    SCHENECTADY, SCHOHARIE, SCHUYLER, STEUBEN,
Trustco Bank                                        TIOGA, TOMPKINS, WARREN, WASHINGTON
Watertown Savings Bank
SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION

[Docket No. SBA-2020-0015]

13 CFR Part 120

Business Loan Program Temporary Changes; Paycheck Protection Program

RIN 3245-AH34

AGENCY:        U. S. Small Business Administration.

ACTION:        Interim Final Rule.

SUMMARY: This interim final rule announces the implementation of sections 1102 and

1106 of the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act (CARES Act or the

Act). Section 1102 of the Act temporarily adds a new product, titled the “Paycheck

Protection Program,” to the U.S. Small Business Administration’s (SBA’s) 7(a) Loan

Program. Section 1106 of the Act provides for forgiveness of up to the full principal

amount of qualifying loans guaranteed under the Paycheck Protection Program. The

Paycheck Protection Program and loan forgiveness are intended to provide economic

relief to small businesses nationwide adversely impacted under the Coronavirus Disease

2019 (COVID-19) Emergency Declaration (COVID-19 Emergency Declaration) issued

by President Trump on March 13, 2020. This interim final rule outlines the key

provisions of SBA’s implementation of sections 1102 and 1106 of the Act in formal

guidance and requests public comment.

DATES: Effective Date: This interim final rule is effective [INSERT DATE OF

PUBLICATION IN THE FEDERAL REGISTER].
Applicability Date: This interim final rule applies to applications submitted under the

Paycheck Protection Program through June 30, 2020, or until funds made available for

this purpose are exhausted.

Comment Date: Comments must be received on or before [INSERT DATE 30 DAYS

AFTER DATE OF PUBLICATION IN THE FEDERAL REGISTER].

You may submit comments, identified by number SBA-2020-0015 through the Federal

eRulemaking Portal: http://www.regulations.gov. Follow the instructions for submitting

comments.

        SBA will post all comments on www.regulations.gov. If you wish to submit

confidential business information (CBI) as defined in the User Notice at

www.regulations.gov, please send an email to dianna.seaborn@sba.gov. Highlight the

information that you consider to be CBI and explain why you believe SBA should hold

this information as confidential. SBA will review the information and make the final

determination whether it will publish the information.

FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: The local SBA Field Office; the list of

offices can be found at https://www.sba.gov/tools/local-assistance/districtoffices.

SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION:

   I.       Background Information

   On March 13, 2020, President Trump declared the ongoing Coronavirus Disease 2019

(COVID-19) pandemic of sufficient severity and magnitude to warrant an emergency

declaration for all states, territories, and the District of Columbia. With the COVID-19

emergency, many small businesses nationwide are experiencing economic hardship as a

direct result of the Federal, State, and local public health measures that are being taken to




                                              2
minimize the public’s exposure to the virus. These measures, some of which are

government-mandated, are being implemented nationwide and include the closures of

restaurants, bars, and gyms. In addition, based on the advice of public health officials,

other measures, such as keeping a safe distance from others or even stay-at-home orders,

are being implemented, resulting in a dramatic decrease in economic activity as the

public avoids malls, retail stores, and other businesses.

   On March 27, 2020, the President signed the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic

Security Act (the CARES Act or the Act) (P.L. 116-136) to provide emergency assistance

and health care response for individuals, families, and businesses affected by the

coronavirus pandemic. The Small Business Administration (SBA) received funding and

authority through the Act to modify existing loan programs and establish a new loan

program to assist small businesses nationwide adversely impacted by the COVID-19

emergency.

    Section 1102 of the Act temporarily permits SBA to guarantee 100 percent of 7(a)

loans under a new program titled the “Paycheck Protection Program.” Section 1106 of

the Act provides for forgiveness of up to the full principal amount of qualifying loans

guaranteed under the Paycheck Protection Program. A more detailed discussion of

sections 1102 and 1106 of the Act is found in section III below.

   II.     Comments and Immediate Effective Date

   The intent of the Act is that SBA provide relief to America’s small businesses

expeditiously. This intent, along with the dramatic decrease in economic activity

nationwide, provides good cause for SBA to dispense with the 30-day delayed effective

date provided in the Administrative Procedure Act. Specifically, small businesses need



                                              3
to be informed on how to apply for a loan and the terms of the loan under section 1102 of

the Act as soon as possible because the last day to apply for and receive a loan is June 30,

2020. The immediate effective date of this interim final rule will benefit small businesses

so that they can immediately apply for the loan with a full understanding of loan terms

and conditions. This interim final rule is effective without advance notice and public

comment because section 1114 of the Act authorizes SBA to issue regulations to

implement Title 1 of the Act without regard to notice requirements. This rule is being

issued to allow for immediate implementation of this program. Although this interim

final rule is effective immediately, comments are solicited from interested members of

the public on all aspects of the interim final rule, including section III below. These

comments must be submitted on or before [INSERT DATE 30 DAYS FROM DATE OF

PUBLICATION IN THE FEDERAL REGISTER]. The SBA will consider these

comments and the need for making any revisions as a result of these comments.

   III.    Temporary New Business Loan Program: Paycheck Protection Program

   Overview

   The CARES Act was enacted to provide immediate assistance to individuals,

families, and businesses affected by the COVID-19 emergency. Among the provisions

contained in the CARES Act are provisions authorizing SBA to temporarily guarantee

loans under a new 7(a) loan program titled the “Paycheck Protection Program.” Loans

guaranteed under the Paycheck Protection Program (PPP) will be 100 percent guaranteed

by SBA, and the full principal amount of the loans may qualify for loan forgiveness. The

following outlines the key provisions of the PPP.

   1. General



                                             4
   SBA is authorized to guarantee loans under the PPP through June 30, 2020. Congress

authorized a program level of $349,000,000,000 to provide guaranteed loans under this

new 7(a) program. The intent of the Act is that SBA provide relief to America’s small

businesses expeditiously, which is expressed in the Act by giving all lenders delegated

authority and streamlining the requirements of the regular 7(a) loan program. For

example, for loans made under the PPP, SBA will not require the lenders to comply with

section 120.150 “What are SBA’s lending criteria?.” SBA will allow lenders to rely on

certifications of the borrower in order to determine eligibility of the borrower and use of

loan proceeds and to rely on specified documents provided by the borrower to determine

qualifying loan amount and eligibility for loan forgiveness. Lenders must comply with

the applicable lender obligations set forth in this interim final rule, but will be held

harmless for borrowers’ failure to comply with program criteria; remedies for borrower

violations or fraud are separately addressed in this interim final rule. The program

requirements of the PPP identified in this rule temporarily supersede any conflicting Loan

Program Requirement (as defined in 13 CFR 120.10).

   2. What Do Borrowers Need to Know and Do?

   a. Am I eligible?

       You are eligible for a PPP loan if you have 500 or fewer employees whose

       principal place of residence is in the United States, or are a business that operates

       in a certain industry and meet the applicable SBA employee-based size standards

       for that industry, and:

           i. You are:




                                               5
         A.        A small business concern as defined in section 3 of the

           Small Business Act (15 USC 632), and subject to SBA’s affiliation

           rules under 13 CFR 121.301(f) unless specifically waived in the

           Act;

         B.        A tax-exempt nonprofit organization described in section

           501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code (IRC), a tax-exempt

           veterans organization described in section 501(c)(19) of the IRC,

           Tribal business concern described in section 31(b)(2)(C) of the

           Small Business Act, or any other business; and

ii. You were in operation on February 15, 2020 and either had employees for

   whom you paid salaries and payroll taxes or paid independent contractors,

   as reported on a Form 1099-MISC.

You are also eligible for a PPP loan if you are an individual who operates

under a sole proprietorship or as an independent contractor or eligible self-

employed individual, you were in operation on February 15, 2020.

You must also submit such documentation as is necessary to establish

eligibility such as payroll processor records, payroll tax filings, or Form 1099-

MISC, or income and expenses from a sole proprietorship. For borrowers that

do not have any such documentation, the borrower must provide other

supporting documentation, such as bank records, sufficient to demonstrate the

qualifying payroll amount.




                                  6
       SBA intends to promptly issue additional guidance with regard to the

       applicability of affiliation rules at 13 CFR §§ 121.103 and 121.301 to PPP

       loans.

b. Could I be ineligible even if I meet the eligibility requirements in (a) above?

   You are ineligible for a PPP loan if, for example:

       i. You are engaged in any activity that is illegal under federal, state, or local

           law;

       ii. You are a household employer (individuals who employ household

           employees such as nannies or housekeepers);

       iii. An owner of 20 percent or more of the equity of the applicant is

           incarcerated, on probation, on parole; presently subject to an indictment,

           criminal information, arraignment, or other means by which formal

           criminal charges are brought in any jurisdiction; or has been convicted of a

           felony within the last five years; or

       iv. You, or any business owned or controlled by you or any of your owners,

           has ever obtained a direct or guaranteed loan from SBA or any other

           Federal agency that is currently delinquent or has defaulted within the last

           seven years and caused a loss to the government.

   The Administrator, in consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury (the

   Secretary), determined that household employers are ineligible because they are

   not businesses. 13 CFR 120.100.

c. How do I determine if I am ineligible?




                                          7
   Businesses that are not eligible for PPP loans are identified in 13 CFR 120.110

   and described further in SBA’s Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) 50 10,

   Subpart B, Chapter 2, except that nonprofit organizations authorized under the

   Act are eligible. (SOP 50 10 can be found at https://www.sba.gov/document/sop-

   50-10-5-lender-development-company-loan-programs.)

d. I have determined that I am eligible. How much can I borrow?

   Under the PPP, the maximum loan amount is the lesser of $10 million or an

   amount that you will calculate using a payroll-based formula specified in the Act,

   as explained below.

e. How do I calculate the maximum amount I can borrow?

   The following methodology, which is one of the methodologies contained in the

   Act, will be most useful for many applicants.

       i. Step 1: Aggregate payroll costs (defined in detail below in f.) from the last

          twelve months for employees whose principal place of residence is the

          United States.

       ii. Step 2: Subtract any compensation paid to an employee in excess of an

          annual salary of $100,000 and/or any amounts paid to an independent

          contractor or sole proprietor in excess of $100,000 per year.

       iii. Step 3: Calculate average monthly payroll costs (divide the amount from

          Step 2 by 12).

       iv. Step 4: Multiply the average monthly payroll costs from Step 3 by 2.5.

       v. Step 5: Add the outstanding amount of an Economic Injury Disaster Loan

          (EIDL) made between January 31, 2020 and April 3, 2020, less the




                                        8
       amount of any “advance” under an EIDL COVID-19 loan (because it does

       not have to be repaid).

The examples below illustrate this methodology.

   i. Example 1 – No employees make more than $100,000

          Annual payroll: $120,000

          Average monthly payroll: $10,000

          Multiply by 2.5 = $25,000

          Maximum loan amount is $25,000

   ii. Example 2 – Some employees make more than $100,000

          Annual payroll: $1,500,000

          Subtract compensation amounts in excess of an annual salary of

          $100,000: $1,200,000

          Average monthly qualifying payroll: $100,000

          Multiply by 2.5 = $250,000

          Maximim loan amount is $250,000

   iii. Example 3 – No employees make more than $100,000, outstanding EIDL

       loan of $10,000.

          Annual payroll: $120,000

          Average monthly payroll: $10,000

          Multiply by 2.5 = $25,000

          Add EIDL loan of $10,000 = $35,000

          Maximum loan amount is $35,000




                                   9
       iv. Example 4 – Some employees make more than $100,000, outstanding

           EIDL loan of $10,000

                Annual payroll: $1,500,000

                Subtract compensation amounts in excess of an annual salary of

                $100,000: $1,200,000

                Average monthly qualifying payroll: $100,000

                Multiply by 2.5 = $250,000

                Add EIDL loan of $10,000 = $260,000

                Maximum loan amount is $260,000

f. What qualifies as “payroll costs?”

   Payroll costs consist of compensation to employees (whose principal place of

   residence is the United States) in the form of salary, wages, commissions, or

   similar compensation; cash tips or the equivalent (based on employer records of

   past tips or, in the absence of such records, a reasonable, good-faith employer

   estimate of such tips); payment for vacation, parental, family, medical, or sick

   leave; allowance for separation or dismissal; payment for the provision of

   employee benefits consisting of group health care coverage, including insurance

   premiums, and retirement; payment of state and local taxes assessed on

   compensation of employees; and for an independent contractor or sole proprietor,

   wage, commissions, income, or net earnings from self-employment or similar

   compensation.

g. Is there anything that is expressly excluded from the definition of payroll costs?

   Yes. The Act expressly excludes the following:




                                        10
       i. Any compensation of an employee whose principal place of residence is

          outside of the United States;

       ii. The compensation of an individual employee in excess of an annual salary

          of $100,000, prorated as necessary;

       iii. Federal employment taxes imposed or withheld between February 15,

          2020 and June 30, 2020, including the employee’s and employer’s share

          of FICA (Federal Insurance Contributions Act) and Railroad Retirement

          Act taxes, and income taxes required to be withheld from employees; and

       iv. Qualified sick and family leave wages for which a credit is allowed under

          sections 7001 and 7003 of the Families First Coronavirus Response Act

          (Public Law 116–127).

h. Do independent contractors count as employees for purposes of PPP loan

   calculations?

   No, independent contractors have the ability to apply for a PPP loan on their own

   so they do not count for purposes of a borrower’s PPP loan calculation.

i. What is the interest rate on a PPP loan?

   The interest rate will be 100 basis points or one percent.

   The Administrator, in consultation with the Secretary, determined that a one

   percent interest rate is appropriate. First, it provides low cost funds to borrowers

   to meet eligible payroll costs and other eligible expenses during this temporary

   period of economic dislocation caused by the coronavirus. Second, for lenders,

   the 100 basis points offers an attractive interest rate relative to the cost of funding

   for comparable maturities. For example, the FDIC’s weekly national average rate




                                          11
   for a 24-month CD deposit product for the week of March 30, 2020 is 42 basis

   points for non-jumbo and 44 basis points for jumbo

   (https://www.fdic.gov/regulations/resources/rates/). Third, the interest rate is

   higher than the yield on Treasury securities of comparable maturity. For example,

   the yield on the Treasury two-year note is approximately 23 basis points. This

   higher yield combined with the fact that the loans are 100 percent guaranteed by

   the SBA and the fact that lenders will receive a substantial processing fee from

   the SBA provide ample inducement for lenders to participate in the PPP.

j. What will be the maturity date on a PPP loan?

   The maturity is two years. While the Act provides that a loan will have a

   maximum maturity of up to ten years from the date the borrower applies for loan

   forgiveness (described below), the Administrator, in consultation with the

   Secretary, determined that a two year loan term is sufficient in light of the

   temporary economic dislocations caused by the coronavirus. Specifically, the

   considerable economic disruption caused by the coronavirus is expected to abate

   well before the two year maturity date such that borrowers will be able to re-

   commence business operations and pay off any outstanding balances on their PPP

   loans.

k. Can I apply for more than one PPP loan?

   No. The Administrator, in consultation with the Secretary, determined that no

   eligible borrower may receive more than one PPP loan. This means that if you

   apply for a PPP loan you should consider applying for the maximum amount.

   While the Act does not expressly provide that each eligible borrower may only




                                        12
   receive one PPP loan, the Administrator has determined, in consultation with the

   Secretary, that because all PPP loans must be made on or before June 30, 2020, a

   one loan per borrower limitation is necessary to help ensure that as many eligible

   borrowers as possible may obtain a PPP loan. This limitation will also help

   advance Congress’ goal of keeping workers paid and employed across the United

   States.

l. Can I use e-signatures or e-consents if a borrower has multiple owners?

   Yes, e-signature or e-consents can be used regardless of the number of owners.

m. Is the PPP “first-come, first-served?”

   Yes.

n. When will I have to begin paying principal and interest on my PPP loan?

   You will not have to make any payments for six months following the date of

   disbursement of the loan. However, interest will continue to accrue on PPP loans

   during this six-month deferment. The Act authorizes the Administrator to defer

   loan payments for up to one year. The Administrator determined, in consultation

   with the Secretary, that a six-month deferment period is appropriate in light of the

   modest interest rate (one percent) on PPP loans and the loan forgiveness

   provisions contained in the Act.

o. Can my PPP loan be forgiven in whole or in part?

   Yes. The amount of loan forgiveness can be up to the full principal amount of the

   loan and any accrued interest. That is, the borrower will not be responsible for

   any loan payment if the borrower uses all of the loan proceeds for forgiveable

   purposes described below and employee and compensation levels levels are




                                        13
maintained. The actual amount of loan forgiveness will depend, in part, on the

total amount of payroll costs, payments of interest on mortgage obligations

incurred before February 15, 2020, rent payments on leases dated before February

15, 2020, and utility payments under service agreements dated before February

15, 2020, over the eight-week period following the date of the loan. However, not

more than 25 percent of the loan forgiveness amount may be attributable to non-

payroll costs. While the Act provides that borrowers are eligible for forgiveness

in an amount equal to the sum of payroll costs and any payments of mortgage

interest, rent, and utilities, the Administrator has determined that the non-payroll

portion of the forgivable loan amount should be limited to effectuate the core

purpose of the statute and ensure finite program resources are devoted primarily

to payroll. The Administrator has determined in consultation with the Secretary

that 75 percent is an appropriate percentage in light of the Act’s overarching focus

on keeping workers paid and employed. Further, the Administrator and the

Secretary believe that applying this threshold to loan forgiveness is consistent

with the structure of the Act, which provides a loan amount 75 percent of which is

equivalent to eight weeks of payroll (8 weeks / 2.5 months = 56 days / 76 days =

74 percent rounded up to 75 percent). Limiting non-payroll costs to 25 percent of

the forgiveness amount will align these elements of the program, and will also

help to ensure that the finite appropriations available for PPP loan forgiveness are

directed toward payroll protection. SBA will issue additional guidance on loan

forgiveness.




                                     14
p. Do independent contractors count as employees for purposes of PPP loan

   forgiveness?

   No, independent contractors have the ability to apply for a PPP loan on their own

   so they do not count for purposes of a borrower’s PPP loan forgiveness.

q. What forms do I need and how do I submit an application?

   The applicant must submit SBA Form 2483 (Paycheck Protection Program

   Application Form) and payroll documentation, as described above. The lender

   must submit SBA Form 2484 (Paycheck Protection Program Lender’s

   Application for 7(a) Loan Guaranty) electronically in accordance with program

   requirements and maintain the forms and supporting documentation in its files.

r. How can PPP loans be used?

   The proceeds of a PPP loan are to be used for:

       i. payroll costs (as defined in the Act and in 2.f.);

       ii. costs related to the continuation of group health care benefits during

          periods of paid sick, medical, or family leave, and insurance premiums;

       iii. mortgage interest payments (but not mortgage prepayments or principal

          payments);

       iv. rent payments;

       v. utility payments;

       vi. interest payments on any other debt obligations that were incurred before

          February 15, 2020; and/or

       vii. refinancing an SBA EIDL loan made between January 31, 2020 and April

          3, 2020. If you received an SBA EIDL loan from January 31, 2020




                                        15
       through April 3, 2020, you can apply for a PPP loan. If your EIDL loan

       was not used for payroll costs, it does not affect your eligibility for a PPP

       loan. If your EIDL loan was used for payroll costs, your PPP loan must be

       used to refinance your EIDL loan. Proceeds from any advance up to

       $10,000 on the EIDL loan will be deducted from the loan forgiveness

       amount on the PPP loan.

However, at least 75 percent of the PPP loan proceeds shall be used for payroll

costs. For purposes of determining the percentage of use of proceeds for payroll

costs, the amount of any EIDL refinanced will be included. For purposes of loan

forgiveness, however, the borrower will have to document the proceeds used for

payroll costs in order to determine the amount of forgiveness. While the Act

provides that PPP loan proceeds may be used for the purposes listed above and for

other allowable uses described in section 7(a) of the Small Business Act (15

U.S.C. 636(a)), the Administrator believes that finite appropriations and the

structure of the Act warrant a requirement that borrowers use a substantial portion

of the loan proceeds for payroll costs, consistent with Congress’ overarching goal

of keeping workers paid and employed. As with the similar limitation on the

forgiveness amount explained earlier, the Administrator, in consultation with the

Secretary, has determined that 75 percent is an appropriate percentage that will

align this element of the program with the loan amount, 75 percent of which is

equivalent to eight weeks of payroll. This limitation on use of the loan funds will

help to ensure that the finite appropriations available for these loans are directed




                                     16
         toward payroll protection, as each loan that is issued depletes the appropriation,

         regardless of whether portions of the loan are later forgiven.

    s. What happens if PPP loan funds are misused?

         If you use PPP funds for unauthorized purposes, SBA will direct you to repay

         those amounts. If you knowingly use the funds for unauthorized purposes, you

         will be subject to additional liability such as charges for fraud. If one of your

         shareholders, members, or partners uses PPP funds for unauthorized purposes,

         SBA will have recourse against the shareholder, member, or partner for the

         unauthorized use.

    t. What certifications need to be made?

         On the Paycheck Protection Program application, an authorized representative of

         the applicant must certify in good faith to all of the below:1

              i. The applicant was in operation on February 15, 2020 and had employees

                  for whom it paid salaries and payroll taxes or paid independent

                  contractors, as reported on a Form 1099-MISC.

              ii. Current economic uncertainty makes this loan request necessary to support

                  the ongoing operations of the applicant.

              iii. The funds will be used to retain workers and maintain payroll or make

                  mortgage interest payments, lease payments, and utility payments; I

                  understand that if the funds are knowingly used for unauthorized purposes,

                  the federal government may hold me legally liable such as for charges of




1
 A representative of the applicant can certify for the business as a whole if the representative is legally
authorized to do so.


                                                      17
   fraud. As explained above, not more than 25 percent of loan proceeds

   may be used for non-payroll costs.

iv. Documentation verifying the number of full-time equivalent employees on

   payroll as well as the dollar amounts of payroll costs, covered mortgage

   interest payments, covered rent payments, and covered utilities for the

   eight week period following this loan will be provided to the lender.

v. Loan forgiveness will be provided for the sum of documented payroll

   costs, covered mortgage interest payments, covered rent payments, and

   covered utilities. As explained above, not more than 25 percent of the

   forgiven amount may be for non-payroll costs.

vi. During the period beginning on February 15, 2020 and ending on

   December 31, 2020, the applicant has not and will not receive another loan

   under this program.

vii. I further certify that the information provided in this application and the

   information provided in all supporting documents and forms is true and

   accurate in all material respects. I understand that knowingly making a

   false statement to obtain a guaranteed loan from SBA is punishable under

   the law, including under 18 USC 1001 and 3571 by imprisonment of not

   more than five years and/or a fine of up to $250,000; under 15 USC 645

   by imprisonment of not more than two years and/or a fine of not more than

   $5,000; and, if submitted to a federally insured institution, under 18 USC

   1014 by imprisonment of not more than thirty years and/or a fine of not

   more than $1,000,000.




                                  18
      viii.      I acknowledge that the lender will confirm the eligible loan amount

          using tax documents I have submitted. I affirm that these tax documents

          are identical to those submitted to the Internal Revenue Service. I also

          understand, acknowledge, and agree that the Lender can share the tax

          information with SBA’s authorized representatives, including authorized

          representatives of the SBA Office of Inspector General, for the purpose of

          compliance with SBA Loan Program Requirements and all SBA reviews.

3. What Do Lenders Need to Know and Do?

a. Who is eligible to make PPP loans?

      i. All SBA 7(a) lenders are automatically approved to make PPP loans on a

          delegated basis.

      ii. The Act provides that the authority to make PPP loans can be extended to

          additional lenders determined by the Administrator and the Secretary to

          have the necessary qualifications to process, close, disburse, and service

          loans made with the SBA guarantee. Since SBA is authorized to make

          PPP loans up to $349 billion by June 30, 2020, the Adminstrator and the

          Secretary have jointly determined that authorizing additional lenders is

          necessary to achieve the purpose of allowing as many eligible borrowers

          as possible to receive loans by the June 30, 2020 deadline.

      iii. The following types of lenders have been determined to meet the criteria

          and are eligible to make PPP loans unless they currently are designated in

          Troubled Condition by their primary federal regulator or are subject to a




                                        19
formal enforcement action with their primary federal regulator that

addresses unsafe or unsound lending practices:

     I.      Any federally insured depository institution or any federally

             insured credit union;

     II.     Any Farm Credit System institution (other than the Federal

             Agricultural Mortgage Corporation) as defined in 12 U.S.C.

             2002(a) that applies the requirements under the Bank Secrecy

             Act and its implementing regulations (collectively, BSA) as a

             federally regulated financial institution, or functionally

             equivalent requirements that are not altered by this rule;

             and

     III.    Any depository or non-depository financing provider that

             originates, maintains, and services business loans or other

             commercial financial receivables and participation interests;

             has a formalized compliance program; applies the

             requirements under the BSA as a federally regulated financial

             institution, or the BSA requirements of an equivalent

             federally regulated financial institution; has been operating

             since at least February 15, 2019, and has originated,

             maintained, and serviced more than $50 million in business

             loans or other commercial financial receivables during a

             consecutive 12 month period in the past 36 months, or is a

             service provider to any insured depository institution that has




                             20
                         a contract to support such institution’s lending activities in

                         accordance with 12 U.S.C. § 1867(c) and is in good standing

                         with the appropriate Federal banking agency.

       iv. Qualified institutions described in 3.a.iii. I. and II. will be automatically

           qualified under delegated authority by the SBA upon transmission of

           CARES Act Section 1102 Lender Agreement (SBA Form 3506) unless

           they currently are designated in Troubled Condition by their primary

           federal regulator or are subject to a formal enforcement action by their

           primary federal regulator that addresses unsafe or unsound lending

           practices.

b. What do lenders have to do in terms of loan underwriting?

   Each lender shall:

       i. Confirm receipt of borrower certifications contained in Paycheck

           Protection Program Application form issued by the Administration;

       ii. Confirm receipt of information demonstrating that a borrower had

           employees for whom the borrower paid salaries and payroll taxes on or

           around February 15, 2020;

       iii. Confirm the dollar amount of average monthly payroll costs for the

           preceding calendar year by reviewing the payroll documentation submitted

           with the borrower’s application; and

       iv. Follow applicable BSA requirements:

                 I.      Federally insured depository institutions and federally

                         insured credit unions should continue to follow their existing




                                         21
      BSA protocols when making PPP loans to either new or

      existing customers who are eligible borrowers under the PPP.

      PPP loans for existing customers will not require re-

      verification under applicable BSA requirements, unless

      otherwise indicated by the institution’s risk-based approach

      to BSA compliance.

II.   Entities that are not presently subject to the requirements of

      the BSA, should, prior to engaging in PPP lending activities,

      including making PPP loans to either new or existing

      customers who are eligible borrowers under the PPP,

      establish an anti-money laundering (AML) compliance

      program equivalent to that of a comparable federally

      regulated institution. Depending upon the comparable

      federally regulated institution, such a program may include a

      customer identification program (CIP), which includes

      identifying and verifying their PPP borrowers’ identities

      (including e.g., date of birth, address, and taxpayer

      identification number), and, if that PPP borrower is a

      company, following any applicable beneficial ownership

      information collection requirements. Alternatively, if

      available, entities may rely on the CIP of a federally insured

      depository institution or federally insured credit union with

      an established CIP as part of its AML program. In either




                      22
                    instance, entities should also understand the nature and

                    purpose of their PPP customer relationships to develop

                    customer risk profiles. Such entities will also generally have

                    to identify and report certain suspicious activity to the U.S.

                    Department of the Treasury’s Financial Crimes Enforcement

                    Network (FinCEN). If such entities have questions with

                    regard to meeting these requirements, they should contact the

                    FinCEN Regulatory Support Section at FRC@fincen.gov.

                    In addition, FinCEN has created a COVID-19-specific

                    contact channel, via a specific drop-down category, for

                    entities to communicate to FinCEN COVID-19-related

                    concerns while adhering to their BSA obligations. Entities

                    that wish to communicate such COVID-19-related concerns

                    to FinCEN should go to www.FinCEN.gov, click on “Need

                    Assistance,” and select “COVID19” in the subject drop-down

                    list.

Each lender’s underwriting obligation under the PPP is limited to the items above

and reviewing the “Paycheck Protection Application Form.” Borrowers must

submit such documentation as is necessary to establish eligibility such as payroll

processor records, payroll tax filings, or Form 1099-MISC, or income and

expenses from a sole proprietorship. For borrowers that do not have any such

documentation, the borrower must provide other supporting documentation, such

as bank records, sufficient to demonstrate the qualifying payroll amount.




                                    23
c. Can lenders rely on borrower documentation for loan forgiveness?

   Yes. The lender does not need to conduct any verification if the borrower submits

   documentation supporting its request for loan forgiveness and attests that it has

   accurately verified the payments for eligible costs. The Administrator will hold

   harmless any lender that relies on such borrower documents and attestation from a

   borrower. The Administrator, in consultation with the Secretary, has determined

   that lender reliance on a borrower’s required documents and attestation is

   necessary and appropriate in light of section 1106(h) of the Act, which prohibits

   the Administrator from taking an enforcement action or imposing penalties if the

   lender has received a borrower attestation.

d. What fees will lenders be paid?

   SBA will pay lenders fees for processing PPP loans in the following amounts:

     i.     Five (5) percent for loans of not more than $350,000;

     ii.    Three (3) percent for loans of more than $350,000 and less than

            $2,000,000; and

     iii.   One (1) percent for loans of at least $2,000,000.

e. Do lenders have to apply the “credit elsewhere test”?

   No. When evaluating an applicant’s eligibility lenders will not be required to

   apply the “credit elsewhere test” (as set forth in section 7(a)(1)(A) of the Small

   Business Act (15 USC 636) and SBA regulations at 13 CFR 120.101)).

4. What do Both Borrowers and Lenders Need to Know and Do?

a. What are the loan terms and conditions?




                                         24
   Loans will be guaranteed under the PPP under the same terms, conditions and

   processes as other 7(a) loans, with certain changes including but not limited to:

     i.      The guarantee percentage is 100 percent.

     ii.     No collateral will be required.

     iii.    No personal guarantees will be required.

     iv.     The interest rate will be 100 basis points or one percent.

     v.      All loans will be processed by all lenders under delegated authority and

             lenders will be permitted to rely on certifications of the borrower in order

             to determine eligibility of the borrower and the use of loan proceeds.

b. Are there any fee waivers?

     i. There will be no up-front guarantee fee payable to SBA by the Borrower;

     ii. There will be no lender’s annual service fee (“on-going guaranty fee”)

            payable to SBA;

     iii. There will be no subsidy recoupment fee; and

     iv. There will be no fee payable to SBA for any guarantee sold into the

            secondary market.

c. Who pays the fee to an agent who assists a borrower?

   Agent fees will be paid by the lender out of the fees the lender receives from

   SBA. Agents may not collect fees from the borrower or be paid out of the PPP

   loan proceeds. The total amount that an agent may collect from the lender for

   assistance in preparing an application for a PPP loan (including referral to the

   lender) may not exceed:

          i. One (1) percent for loans of not more than $350,000;

          ii. 0.50 percent for loans of more than $350,000 and less than $2 million; and


                                          25
       iii. 0.25 percent for loans of at least $2 million.

   The Act authorizes the Administrator to establish limits on agent fees. The

   Administrator, in consultation with the Secretary, determined that the agent fee

   limits set forth above are reasonable based upon the application req uirements and

   the fees that lenders receive for making PPP loans.

d. Can PPP loans be sold into the secondary market?

   Yes. A PPP loan may be sold on the secondary market after the loan is fully

   disbursed. A PPP loan may be sold on the secondary market at a premium or a

   discount to par value. SBA will issue guidance regarding any advance purchase

   for loans sold in the secondary market.

e. Can SBA purchase some or all of the loan in advance?

   Yes. A lender may request that the SBA purchase the expected forgiveness

   amount of a PPP loan or pool of PPP loans at the end of week seven of the

   covered period. The expected forgiveness amount is the amount of loan principal

   the lender reasonably expects the borrower to expend on payroll costs, covered

   mortgage interest, covered rent, and covered utility payments during the eight

   week period after loan disbursement. At least 75 percent of the expected

   forgiveness amount shall be for payroll costs, as provided in 2.o. To submit a

   PPP loan or pool of PPP loans for advance purchase, a lender shall submit a report

   requesting advance purchase with the expected forgiveness amount to the SBA.

   The report shall include: the Paycheck Protection Program Application Form

   (SBA Form 2483) and any supporting documentation submitted with such

   application; the Paycheck Protection Program Lender’s Application for 7(a) Loan

   Guaranty (SBA Form 2484) and any supporting documentation; a detailed


                                         26
       narrative explaining the assumptions used in determining the expected

       forgiveness amount, the basis for those assumptions, alternative assumptions

       considered, and why alternative assumptions were not used; any information

       obtained from the borrower since the loan was disbursed that the lender used to

       determine the expected forgiveness amount, which should include the same

       documentation required to apply for loan forgiveness such as payroll tax filings,

       cancelled checks, and other payment documentation; and any additional

       information the Administrator may require to determine whether the expected

       forgiveness amount is reasonable. The Administrator, in consultation with the

       Secretary, determined that seven weeks is the minimum period of time necessary

       for a lender to reasonably determine the expected forgiveness amount for a PPP

       loan or pool of PPP loans, since the PPP is a new program and the likelihood that

       many borrowers will be new clients of the lender. The expected forgiveness

       amount may not exceed the total amount of principal on the PPP loan or pool of

       loans. The Administrator will purchase the expected forgiveness amount of the

       PPP loan(s) within 15 days of the date on which the Administrator receives a

       complete report that demonstrates that the expected forgiveness amount is indeed

       reasonable.

   5. Additional Information

   All loans guaranteed by the SBA pursuant to the CARES Act will be made consistent

with constitutional, statutory, and regulatory protections for religious liberty, including

the First Amendment to the Constitution, the Religious Freedom Restoration Act, 42

U.S.C. 2000bb-1 and bb-3, and SBA regulation at 13 C.F.R. 113.3-1h, which provides:




                                             27
“Nothing in [SBA nondiscrimination regulations] shall apply to a religious corporation,

association, educational institution or society with respect to the membership or the

employment of individuals of a particular religion to perform work connected with the

carrying on by such corporation, association, educational institution or society of its

religious activities.” SBA intends to promptly issue additional guidance with regard to

religious liberty protections under this program.

   SBA may provide further guidance, if needed, through SBA notices and a program

guide which will be posted on SBA’s website at www.sba.gov.

   Questions on the Paycheck Protection Program 7(a) Loans may be directed to the

Lender Relations Specialist in the local SBA Field Office. The local SBA Field Office

may be found at https://www.sba.gov/tools/local-assistance/districtoffices.

Compliance with Executive Orders 12866, 12988, 13132, and 13771, the Paperwork

Reduction Act (44 U.S.C. Ch. 35), and the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. 601-

612).

EO 12866 and EO 13563

   This interim final rule is economically significant for the purposes of Executive

Orders 12866 and 13563. SBA, however, is proceeding under the emergency provision at

Executive Order 12866 Section 6(a)(3)(D) based on the need to move expeditiously to

mitigate the current economic conditions arising from the COVID–19 emergency. This

rule’s designation under Executive Order 13771 will be informed by public comment.

   This rule is necessary to implement Sections 1102 and 1106 of the CARES Act in

order to provide economic relief to small businesses nationwide adversely impacted

under the COVID-19 Emergency Declaration. We anticipate that this rule will result in




                                             28
substantial benefits to small businesses, their employees, and the communities they

serve. However, we lack data to estimate the effects of this rule.

Executive Order 12988

   SBA has drafted this rule, to the extent practicable, in accordance with the standards

set forth in section 3(a) and 3(b)(2) of Executive Order 12988, to minimize litigation,

eliminate ambiguity, and reduce burden. The rule has no preemptive or retroactive effect.

Executive Order 13132

   SBA has determined that this rule will not have substantial direct effects on the

States, on the relationship between the national government and the States, or on the

distribution of power and responsibilities among the various layers of government.

Therefore, SBA has determined that this rule has no federalism implications warranting

preparation of a federalism assessment.

Paperwork Reduction Act, 44 U.S.C.Chapter 35

   SBA has determined that this rule will impose recordkeeping or reporting

requirements under the Paperwork Reduction Act (“PRA”). SBA has obtained

emergency approval under OMB Control Number 3245-0407 for the information

collection (IC) required to implement the program described above. This IC consists of

Form 2483 (Paycheck Protection Program Application Form), SBA Form 2484

(Paycheck Protection Program Lender’s Application for 7(a) Loan Guaranty), and SBA

Form 3506 (CARES Act Section 1102 Lender Agreement), and is approved for use until

September 30, 2020.

Regulatory Flexibility Act (RFA)




                                            29
   The Regulatory Flexibility Act (RFA) generally requires that when an agency issues a

proposed rule, or a final rule pursuant to section 553(b) of the APA or another law, the

agency must prepare a regulatory flexibility analysis that meets the requirements of the

RFA and publish such analysis in the Federal Register. 5 U.S.C. 603, 604. Specifically,

the RFA normally requires agencies to describe the impact of a rulemaking on small

entities by providing a regulatory impact analysis. Such analysis must address the

consideration of regulatory options that would lessen the economic effect of the rule on

small entities. The RFA defines a ‘‘small entity’’ as (1) a proprietary firm meeting the

size standards of the Small Business Administration (SBA); (2) a nonprofit organization

that is not dominant in its field; or (3) a small government jurisdiction with a population

of less than 50,000. 5 U.S.C. 601(3)–(6). Except for such small government jurisdictions,

neither State nor local governments are ‘‘small entities.’’ Similarly, for purposes of the

RFA, individual persons are not small entities.

   The requirement to conduct a regulatory impact analysis does not apply if the head of

the agency “certifies that the rule will not, if promulgated, have a significant economic

impact on a substantial number of small entities.” 5 U.S.C. 605(b). The agency must,

however, publish the certification in the Federal Register at the time of publication of the

rule, “along with a statement providing the factual basis for such certification.” If the

agency head has not waived the requirements for a regulatory flexibility analysis in

accordance with the RFA’s waiver provision, and no other RFA exception applies, the

agency must prepare the regulatory flexibility analysis and publish it in the Federal

Register at the time of promulgation or, if the rule is promulgated in response to an




                                             30
emergency that makes timely compliance impracticable, within 180 days of publication

of the final rule. 5 U.S.C. 604(a), 608(b).

   Rules that are exempt from notice and comment are also exempt from the RFA

requirements, including conducting a regulatory flexibility analysis, when among other

things the agency for good cause finds that notice and public procedure are impracticable,

unnecessary, or contrary to the public interest. Small Business Administration’s Office

of Advocacy guide: How to Comply with the Regulatory Flexibility Ac. Ch.1. p.9.

Accordingly, SBA is not required to conduct a regulatory flexibility analysis.

Authority: 15 U.S.C. 636(a)(36); Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act,

Pub. L. No. 116-136, Section 1114

Dated:

Jovita Carranza,
Administrator




                                              31
