Q 1: Which financial institutions are eligible to participate in the TARP Community Development
Capital Initiative (CDCI)?

A: Generally speaking, the following institutions are eligible to apply to participate in the CDCI: any
bank, savings association, bank holding company, savings and loan holding company which engages
solely or predominately in activities that are permitted for financial holding companies under relevant
law, and federally insured low-income designated credit union is eligible to participate if it is (i) certified
by the United States Department of the Treasury’s (“Treasury”) CDFI Fund as a Community Development
Financial Institution (“CDFI”); (ii) regulated by a federal banking or credit union agency; and (iii)
organized under the laws of the United States. Financial institutions that are controlled by a foreign
entity will not be eligible. The appropriate federal banking or credit union agency will make a
recommendation to Treasury regarding an applicant’s viability. In the case of state-regulated credit
unions, an eligibility and viability determination will be made jointly by the state agency and the federal
agency.

Viability will be determined either (i) without CDCI funds or (ii) on a pro forma basis. Pro forma viability
means that the regulator may take into account junior private investor capital raised in conjunction with
capital provided under the CDCI in an amount at least equal to the CDCI funding. If CDCI funding is
contingent on successful completion of a private capital raise, the amount of CDCI funding (inclusive of
any other Treasury bank capital programs) shall not exceed the CDCI program limits (5% of risk-weighted
assets or 3.5% of total assets, in the case of credit unions). As a condition of funding, applicants must
also comply with any other requirements set forth by their regulator.

Q 2: Can a Qualified Financial Institution (“QFI”) apply to exchange securities issued under the TARP
Capital Purchase Program for securities issued under the CDCI?

A: Yes, a QFI may apply to exchange securities issued under the TARP Capital Purchase Program for
securities issued under the CDCI without applying for additional capital under the CDCI. QFIs seeking to
exchange Capital Purchase Program securities as well as receive additional capital for a combined total
of 5% of risk-weighted assets under the CDCI must be reviewed and recommended by the institution’s
regulator for the additional capital. Exchanges of existing CPP preferred stock for preferred stock under
the CDCI shall occur as soon as practicable upon filing of an application for exchange without regard to
whether the institution is also seeking additional capital.

Q 3: How does a QFI apply to participate in the CDCI?

A: A QFI must submit an application to the appropriate federal banking agency or credit union agency
or, in the case of an exchange, Treasury. If the applicant is a bank holding company, the application
should be submitted to both the applicant’s holding company supervisor and the supervisor of the
largest insured depository institution controlled by the applicant. The application is available at
www.financialstability.gov.

Q 4: What is the deadline for applying to be certified as a CDFI in order to become eligible for the
CDCI?



                                                      1
A: The institution must submit its application for certification as a CDFI to the CDFI Fund no later than
5:00 p.m. (EST) on April 30, 2010 (revised from April 16th deadline previously). Institutions that are
applying to become CDFIs should also apply to the CDCI as soon as practicable.

Q 5: What is the deadline for applying to participate in the CDCI?

A: The application by a QFI must be received by the institution’s appropriate federal banking or credit
union agency or, in the case of an exchange, Treasury, at the location specified by the agency no later
than 5:00 p.m. (EST) on April 30, 2010 (revised from April 2nd deadline previously). QFIs are encouraged
to submit their applications as soon as practicable.

Q 6: Is there an application form?

A: Yes. The federal banking and credit union agencies, working in consultation with Treasury, have
developed application forms that may be used by QFIs seeking to participate in the CDCI. The
application forms are available at www.financialstability.gov. All inquiries regarding preparation of the
application should be directed to the appropriate agency.

Q 7: Will applications filed by the QFIs be released publicly?

A: No. The CDCI applications are confidential proposals submitted for review by each institution’s
regulator. Applications that are denied or withdrawn will not be disclosed. However, Treasury will
provide electronic reports detailing any completed transactions, as required by the Emergency
Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, within 48 hours. These reports will be made available at
www.financialstability.gov.

Q 8: Who should a QFI contact if it has a question regarding how to file an application or the status of
a submitted application?

A: The QFI should contact the appropriate federal banking or credit union agency using the contact
information provided on the above referenced agency’s web site.

Q 9: Will a QFI receive verification that its application has been filed with the appropriate federal
banking or credit union agency or, in the case of an exchange, Treasury?

A: Yes.

Q 10: How long will it take for an application to be processed?

A: Treasury, working in consultation with the federal banking and credit union agencies, will process
and make a determination on all applications submitted to the CDCI as soon as reasonably possible. The
completion of processing will depend on the complexities of the application. Where additional private
investor capital is deemed necessary, it will be incumbent on the applicant to provide sufficient detailed
information to their primary banking regulator and/or Treasury to support their application.

Q 11: How will a QFI that has filed a timely application be notified when a preliminary decision on the
application has been made by Treasury?


                                                     2
A: Preliminary decisions on application will be communicated by Treasury to the representative of the
institution identified on the application form.

Q 12: What is the deadline for funding and exchanges?

A: Funding and exchanges must be completed no later than 5:00 p.m. (EST) on September 30, 2010.

Q 13: Will Treasury require warrants?

A: Treasury does not anticipate requiring participating institutions to issue warrants under the CDCI. In
accordance with the requirements of Section 113(d)(3)(A) of the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act
of 2008, a QFI participating in this program will not be required to issue warrants to Treasury unless it
has received TARP funds totaling more than $100 million under any TARP program, including the CDCI.

Q 14: Are participants in the CDCI subject to executive compensation requirements?

A: Yes, participants in the CDCI will be subject to the same executive compensation requirements that
apply to other TARP recipients.

Q 15: Are institutions organized as mutuals and S-Corporations eligible for funding under the CDCI?

A: Yes, these institutions are eligible for funding and should apply to their primary federal regulator
using the bank application form available on www.financialstability.gov.

Q 16: When does a QFI submit the final documentation to complete the Treasury investment?

A: For institutions accepted into the program without a requirement to raise additional capital, final
documentation must be submitted no later than 30 days after a QFI has been notified that it has
received preliminary acceptance. Instructions for submitting final documentation will be available on
Treasury’s web site at www.financialstability.gov. Any QFI required by its regulator to raise additional
capital as a condition of program participation must submit its proposed plan for raising such capital,
including an expected closing date, no later than 30 days following receipt of this notice.




                                                     3
