                                                                           COLLATERAL ENHANCEMENT PROGRAM (CEP)
                                                                           FOR CREDIT UNIONS
                                                                           Lender Application


Credit Union Information (Form to be completed by the Credit Union and submitted to Ohio Development Services Agency)
Credit Union Name:
Contact Name:                                                                                        Contact Title:
Phone #:                                                                                             Email Address:
Address:                                                                                             Fax #:
City:                                    State:                          Zip:                        EIN #:

Loan Information
Borrower Name:                                                                  CEO/Owner Name:
Phone #:                                                                        Email Address:
Address:
City:                                                State:                     Zip:
Expected Initial Disbursement Date:                                     Loan Amount: $
Will Borrower finance Lender fees?: q Yes q No
Will Borrower finance CEP fees*?: q Yes q No
Loan amount with Lender fees?: $
Loan Type:      q Line of Credit     q Term Loan     q Other
Length of Loan:      mos.                                               Length of Amortization:      mos.
Interest Rate:                                                          Debt Coverage Ratio: Historical ______:1 , Projected _____:1
Please Describe Use of Loan Proceeds:
What is the Collateral and Security Position? (Please attach list if not included in write-up):
What is the Collateral Value?: $
What is the Credit Union’s normal advance rate                          What is Credit Union’s desired advance rate? __________%
on this type of loan? ____________________%

Why does the collateral shortfall exist?:


What is the amount of Borrower Equity?:
What is the Requested allocation amount from the CEP?:
* Ohio Development Services Agency staff will calculate CEP fee and inform Lender.

Important: Please attach the loan write-up, appraisal(s) or other collateral valuation, Borrower financial statement, amortization schedule and CEP
Borrower Certification Form.


Refinancing Existing Debt (Complete only if refinancing existing debt from another financial institution)
 Debt from Another Financial Institution: q            Yes q No               Financial Institution’s Loan #:
 Financial Institution name:                                                  Type of Existing Debt:
Important: Financial Institution is any bank, trust company, savings bank, credit union, savings and loan association, national bank, federal
savings and loan association, or federal savings bank that has a significant presence in the state.

Other Credit
Amount of Other Credit Facilities being Provided in Combination with this CEP Application: $
Loan Type:      q Line of Credit     q Term Loan     q Other

                                                                                                                                                          (Over)
                                                                                                                                                Revised 08/07/2014
Eligibility Criteria
Does the Borrower meet the following Collateral Enhancement Program eligibility criteria?

 The Borrower has annual revenues of                                         The Borrower’s principal place of
 under $10 million: q True    q False                                        business is in Ohio: q True    q False
 The loan is not for a business engaged in mining, agriculture, real estate investment, speculative activities,
 lending or leasing activities, pyramid sales, illegal activities, gambling activities, charitable institutions,
 religious institutions, consumer or marketing cooperative, other nonprofit or for business ownership
 exchange or goodwill purchases:     q True   q False
 Borrower has fewer than 250 employees:     q True   q False

 Project Proposed Start Date:

 Current # of Full-time Employees:                                           Current # of Part-time Employees:

 # Full-time jobs to be created in 2 yrs:                                    # Part-time jobs to be created in 2 yrs:
 Current # of Full-time jobs to be retained:                                 Current # of Part-time jobs to be retained:
 Average hourly wage for Full-time:                                          Average hourly wage for Part-time:
 Note: Full-time is more than 2,000 hours per year;
 Part-time is less than 2,000 hours per year;
 Created jobs cannot be transfers from another facility in Ohio;
 Retained jobs are current employees who will be laid off if the Lender’s loan is not received;
 Created or retained jobs must be within Ohio.

 Borrower has signed the Collateral Enhancement Program for Credit Unions Borrower’s Information and
 Certification Form and based on the credit union’s knowledge, the credit union has no reason to believe the
 certifications and representations in it are not true:     q True   q False
Important: Answers marked False makes the loan ineligible for the Collateral Enhancement Program. Job creation or retention must take place or
loan is ineligible for the Collateral Enhancement Program.
Credit Union’s Certification and Acknowledgement
Credit Union Certifies and Acknowledges that:
1. The loan has not been made in order to place under the protection of the CEP prior debt that is not covered under the CEP, and
  that is or was owed by the Borrower to the credit union or to an affiliate of the financial institution credit union.
2. The loan is not a refinancing of a loan previously made to the Borrower by the credit union or an affiliate of the financial credit
  union.
3. The loan will not exceed $5 million.
4. The credit union will not make the loan to cover the unguaranteed portion of a U.S. Small Business Administration loan or the
  unguaranteed portion of a loan guaranteed by any other federal, state, or local government entity.
5. The loan will not be used to effect a partial change of business ownership or a change that will not benefit the business; permit
  the reimbursement of funds owed to any owner, including any equity injection or injection of capital for the business’s con-
  tinuance; acquire or hold passive investments such as commercial real estate ownership, or purchase securities; fund lobbying
  activities (as defined in Section 3 (7) of 16 the Lobbying Disclosure Act of 1995, P.L. 104-65, as amended); repay delinquent state
  or federal withholding taxes or other taxes held in trust or escrow (e.g. payroll or sales taxes).
6. The credit union is not operating under a Supervisory Enforcement Action.

7. No principal of the credit union has been convicted of a sex offense against a minor (as such terms are defined in section
  111 of the Sex Offender Registration and Notification Act (42 U.S.C. 16911)). For the purposes of this certification, principals is
  defined as if a sole proprietorship, the proprietor; if a partnership, each partner, who is a natural person that holds a 20 percent
  or more ownership; if a corporation, limited liability company, association or a development company, each director, each of
  the five most highly compensated executives, officers, or employees of the entity, and each natural person who is a direct
  or indirect holder of 20 percent or more of the ownership stock or stock equivalent of the entity. If a principal of the lender is
  convicted of a sex offense against a minor after Collateral Enhancement Program approval, the lender must provide written
  notice to the Ohio Development Services Agency.
8. To the best of his/her knowledge, all information provided on this application is true and correct.

Authorized Signature 						                                                                                Date 				

Printed Name and Title 										




                                                              Attention Credit Unions

                                                   Email form to: CEP@development.ohio.gov
                                                                          - or -
                                              Mail form to: Manager, Office of Business Assistance,
                                                       Ohio Development Services Agency
                                      77 S. High Street, 28th Floor, P.O. Box 1001, Columbus, Ohio 43216-1001
                                                            or fax form to: (614) 466-4172
                                              For information, please call (800) 848-1300 ext. 65700
                               The State of Ohio is an Equal Opportunity Employer and Provider of ADA Services.
                                                                  COLLATERAL ENHANCEMENT PROGRAM (CEP)
                                                                  FOR CREDIT UNIONS
                                                                  Lender Application


Please provide the following documentation when submitting a CEP for Credit Unions Lender Application:

qq CEP for Credit Unions Lender Application
qq CEP Borrower Certification Form
qq Lender’s loan write-up
qq Appraisal(s) or other appropriate collateral valuation that proves shortfall
qq Borrower’s financial statements
qq Amortization schedule
qq Minority Business Certification (if applicable)
qq Risk rating justification

If the project involves a real estate holding company, please submit proof of the following:

qq T
    he operating company is a guarantor of co-borrower on the CEP-supported loan to the eligible real estate
   holding company;
qq B
    oth the eligible real estate holding company and the operating company have executed the CEP Borrower
   Certification Form;
qq E
    ach natural person holding an ownership interest constituting at least 20 percent of either the eligible real
   estate holding company or the operating company provided a personal guarantee for the CEP-supported loan;
qq T
    he eligible real estate holding company and the operating company have a written lease with a term at least
   equal to the term of the CEP-supported loan, including options to renew exercisable solely by the operating
   company; and the company must lease 100 percent of the space from the real estate holding company and
   cannot sublease more than 49 percent of the space.
qq A drawing of the floor space identifying the percentage of occupancy for each tenant.

If the project involves refinancing, please submit proof of the following:

qq D
    ocumentation identifying original purpose of loan being refinanced (i.e. purchase agreement and cost of
   items purchased, bank statement, borrower statement, etc.);
qq Payoff statements;
qq Brief explanation of refinancing benefits for the borrower

If project involves a purchase or construction, please submit proof of the following (where applicable):

qq Purchase agreement with cost detail;
qq Cost estimates




                                                      Attention Credit Unions

                                            Email form to: CEP@development.ohio.gov
                                                                   - or -
                                       Mail form to: Manager, Office of Business Assistance,
                                                Ohio Development Services Agency
                               77 S. High Street, 28th Floor, P.O. Box 1001, Columbus, Ohio 43216-1001
                                                     or fax form to: (614) 466-4172
                                       For information, please call (800) 848-1300 ext. 65700
                        The State of Ohio is an Equal Opportunity Employer and Provider of ADA Services.
