     SBA’s Disaster Declaration Makes Loans
   Available Due to the Coronavirus (COVID-19)

The U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA) is
offering designated states and territories low-interest
federal disaster loans for working capital to small
businesses suffering substantial economic injury as a
result of the Coronavirus (COVID-19).

Upon a request received from a state’s or territory’s
Governor, SBA will issue under its own authority, as
provided by the Coronavirus Preparedness and
Response Supplement Appropriations Act that was
                                                                                  Administrator Jovita Carranza
recently signed by the President, an Economic Injury
Disaster Loan declaration.


                                                                                                           2
                             U.S. Small Business –Massachusetts District Office
          SBA’s Programs and Services

➢ Counseling                           Business Training & Education
      ➢   SCORE, MSBDC & CWE

➢ Capital             Access to Government Guaranties
      ➢   Microloans/Community Advantage
      ➢   7(a)/Express, 504 Loan Programs
      ➢   Surety Bond Guaranty Program

➢ Contracting                        Selling to the U.S. Government
      ➢   8(a) Business Development & HUBZone Certification

➢ Disaster Assistance
      ➢ Physical Damage & Economic Injury Loans
                     U.S. Small Business –Massachusetts District Office
                                                                          33
 SBA’s Economic Injury Disaster Loan Basics
What businesses are eligible to apply?
SBA’s Economic Injury Disaster Loans (or working capital loans)
are available to small businesses, small agricultural cooperatives,
small aquaculture businesses and most private non-profit
organizations

This includes:
• Businesses directly affected by the disaster
• Businesses that offer services directly related to the businesses
  in the declaration
• Other businesses indirectly related the industry that are likely to
  be harmed by losses in their community
   (Example: Manufacturer of widgets may be eligible as well as the
   wholesaler and retailer of the product.
                       U.S. Small Business –Massachusetts District Office
                                                                            44
SBA’s Economic Injury Disaster Loan Basics
What is the criteria for a loan approval?

Credit History-Applicants must have a
credit history acceptable to SBA.

Repayment –SBA must determine that the
applicant business has the ability to repay
the SBA loan.

Eligibility- The applicant business must be
physically located in a declared county and
suffered working capital losses due to the
declared disaster, not due to a downturn in
the economy or other reasons.

                                                                             5
                        U.S. Small Business –Massachusetts District Office
 SBA’s Economic Injury Disaster Loan Terms
How much can I borrow?
Eligible entities may qualify for loans up to $2 million.

The interest rates for this disaster are 3.75 percent for small businesses and
2.75 percent for nonprofit organizations with terms up to 30 years.

Eligibility for these working capital loans are based on the size (must be a
small business) and type of business and its financial resources.

How can I use the loan funds?
These working capital loans may be used to pay fixed debts, payroll, accounts
payable, and other bills that could have been paid had the disaster not
occurred. The loans are not intended to replace lost sales or profits or for
expansion.

                                                                                   6
                              U.S. Small Business –Massachusetts District Office
Economic Injury Disaster Loan Terms



What are the collateral requirements?

• Economic Injury Disaster Loans over $25,000 require
  collateral.

• SBA takes real estate as collateral when it is available.

• SBA will not decline a loan for lack of collateral,
  but requires borrowers to pledge what is available.


                       U.S. Small Business –Massachusetts District Office
                                                                            77
  SBA’s Economic Injury Disaster Loan Basics
What kinds of small businesses can apply?
Examples of eligible industries include but are not
limited to the following: hotels, recreational facilities,
charter boats, manufactures, sports vendors, owners
of rental property, restaurants, retailers, souvenir
shops, travel agencies, and wholesalers.




What other criteria is involved?
The applicant business must have a physical presence in the declared disaster
area. An applicant’s economic presence alone in a declared area does not meet
this requirement. The physical presence must be tangible and significant. Merely
having a P.O. Box in the disaster area would not qualify as a physical presence.


                               U.S. Small Business –Massachusetts District Office
                                                                                    88
SBA’s Working Capital Loans are Different
from regular SBA Loans
SBA’s Economic Injury Disaster Loan (EIDLs) funds come directly from the
U.S. Treasury.

Applicants do not go through a bank to apply. Instead apply directly to
SBA’s Disaster Assistance Program at: DisasterLoan.sba.gov

❖ There is no cost to apply.

❖ There is no obligation to take the loan if offered.

❖ The maximum unsecured loan amount is $25,000.

Applicants can have an existing SBA Disaster Loan and still qualify for an
EIDL for this disaster, but the loans cannot be consolidated.

                                                                                 9
                            U.S. Small Business –Massachusetts District Office
              Basic Filing Requirements



• Completed SBA loan application (SBA Form 5).
• Tax Information Authorization (IRS Form 4506-T)
   for the applicant, principals and affiliates.
• Complete copies of the most recent Federal Income Tax Return.
• Schedule of Liabilities (SBA Form 2202).
• Personal Financial Statement (SBA Form 413).
         Other Information may also be requested.
*Although a paper application and forms are acceptable, filing electronically is
easier, faster and more accurate.

                               U.S. Small Business –Massachusetts District Office
                                                                                    1010
 Additional Filing Requirements

Other information that may be requested:
• Complete copy, including all schedules, of the most recent Federal income
  tax return for principals, general partners or managing member, and
  affiliates (see filing requirements for more information).
• If the most recent Federal income tax return has not been filed, a year-end
  profit-and-loss statement and balance sheet for that tax year .
• A current year-to-date profit-and-loss statement .
• Additional Filing Requirements (SBA Form 1368) providing monthly sales
  figures. (This is especially important for Economic Injury Disaster Loans.)




                              U.S. Small Business –Massachusetts District Office
                                                                                   1111
                      Ineligible Entities
What are some of the businesses that are ineligible for an Economic
Injury Disaster Loan?

• Agricultural Enterprises -If the primary activity of the business (including
  its affiliates) is as defined in Section 18(b)(1) of the Small Business Act,
  neither the business nor its affiliates are eligible for EIDL assistance.

• Religious Organizations

• Charitable Organizations

• Gambling Concerns (Ex: Concerns that derive more that 1/3 of their
  annual gross revenue from legal gambling activities)

• Casinos & Racetracks (Ex: Businesses whose purpose for being is gambling
  (e.g., casinos, racetracks, poker parlors, etc.) are not eligible for EIDL
  assistance regardless of 1/3 criteria above.

                            U.S. Small Business –Massachusetts District Office
                                                                                 1212
                                                                                  How to Apply

SBA’s Customer Service Representatives are ready to serve.


• Applicants visit SBA’s secure website at https://disasterloan.sba.gov/ela
  to download paper loan applications can be downloaded from t

• Completed applications should be mailed to:
      U.S. Small Business Administration
      Processing and Disbursement Center
      14925 Kingsport Road
      Fort Worth, TX 76155
• Disaster loan information and application forms may also be obtained by
  calling the SBA’s Customer Service Center at 800-659-2955
  (800-877-8339 for the deaf and hard-of-hearing) or by sending an email to
  disastercustomerservice@sba.gov.
                                                                                                 13
                                  U.S. Small Business –Massachusetts District Office
            Assistance From SBA Partners


                                                                 Southeast Regional Office
                                                                  www.msbdc.org/semass
                                                                      508.673.9783

➢   Free One-on-one business consulting, via Zoom, Skype, Phone, Email
➢   Assistance with information that will be required for a Loan
➢   Each application and every business is different
➢   Assistance in preparing financial statements
➢   Assistance with Cash Forecasts, especially for new businesses
➢   Updating your Business Plan
➢   NOW is the time to take care of your business’ health
➢   Get a checkup for your business:

For the nearest office, visit: https://www.sba.gov/local-assistance
                                                                                             14
                         U.S. Small Business –Massachusetts District Office
          SBA’s Resource Partners - SCORE

                                                   Experienced Volunteers Offering:
                                                          • Expert business counseling
                                                          • Marketing advice
                                                          • Business plan preparation
                                                          • Loan application assistance
                                                          • Online or in person counseling
                                                          • FREE AND CONFIDENTIAL
Contact SCORE:
Southeastern MA….508-587-2673            Northeastern MA ...978-927-2282
www.sema.score.org                       www.scorenemass.org
                                         Western MA ………413-785-0314
Boston………………617-565-5591                 www.westernmassachusetts.score.org
www.boston.score.org                     Worcester ……….. 508-753-2929
Cape Cod ……… 508-775-4884                www.worcester.score.org
www.capecod.score.org                                                                        1515
                            U.S. Small Business –Massachusetts District Office
             SBA’s Resource Partners - MSBDC




Contact the MSBDC:                                       MSBDC:
                                                         https://www.msbdc.org/semass/rfc.html
Pittsfield    413-499-0933                               Paid advisors across the state in 6 regional centers.
Worcester     508-793-7615                               ✓ Free and Confidential
                                                         ✓ Business plan and loan application assistance
Salem         978-542-6343                               ✓ Combines resources of SBA, local government,
Fall River    508-673-9783                                  private sector and academia
                                                         ✓ Export and government contracting assistance.
Springfield 413-737-6712
                                                         ✓ Typically located at colleges and universities:
Govt. Contracting 413-737-6712 x 105                        U-Mass Amherst and Boston, Salem State
Export Help     617-973-8664                                   and Clark University
                               U.S. Small Business –Massachusetts District Office
                                                                                                           1616
               SBA’s Resource Partners - CWE


Centers in Boston and Worcester provide:
   •   Classes on how to write a business plan
   •   Support in launching your business
   •   Networking with other business owners
   •   2-hour topic-specific workshops
   •   One-on-one legal and business consulting
   •   Classes to support you in your job search


       Boston: ………………………. (617) 536-0700
       Westborough: ……………….. (508) 363-2300



                               U.S. Small Business –Massachusetts District Office
                                                                                    1717
                 Submit Your Application
                   As Soon As Possible
❑ Recheck the filing requirements to ensure that all the needed
  information is submitted.

❑ The biggest reason for delays in processing is due to missing
  information. Make sure to complete all filing requirements
  before submitting the application and forms.

❑ If more funds are needed, applicants can submit supporting
  documents and a request for an increase. If less funds are
  needed, applicants can request a reduction in the loan amount.

❑ If the loan request is denied, the applicant will be given up to six
  months in which to provide new information and submit a
  written request for reconsideration.
                                                                              18
                         U.S. Small Business –Massachusetts District Office
Disaster Loan Application Portal (DLAP)




                                          19
                  Loan Application as of 3/26/2020

Economic Injury Disaster                Instructions to Apply
Loan Assistance                         1.Download forms below
                                        2.Fill in your information
Small business owners in all
U.S. states, Washington D.C., and       3.Upload forms on this page
territories are currently eligible to   below
apply for a long-term, low-interest     4.If you choose to mail, then
loan due to Coronavirus (COVID-19).     please see Mailing Instructions
The SBA’s Economic Injury Disaster      below
Loan program provides small
businesses with working capital         Download Business
loans of up to $2 million that can      Forms
provide vital economic support to
                                        I.     Business Loan Application
small businesses to help overcome              (Form 5) (en Español)
the temporary loss of revenue they
are experiencing.                       II.    Home or Sole Proprietor Loan
                                               Application (SBA Form 5C) (en
If you are applying for disaster               Español)
assistance for another declaration,
                                        III.   Economic Injury Disaster
then please see the homeowner's                Loan Supporting Information
and renter's form here.                        (Form P-019)                    20
Form 5 – Page 1 & 2




                      21
                      Form 5 – Pages 2 Disclosures
Page 2 of Form 5 allows the business owner to provide information about any Partners or Affiliate
Businesses.

Note: If a business is a partnership all members must listed with the % of ownership until the combined
entries equal 100%




                                                                                                    22
ODA Form P-19 & IRS FORM 4506-T




                                  23
            Filing Requirements Checklist
❑ Loan Application (SBA Form 5) or (SBA Form 5C) – Sole
  Proprietorship Only
❑ Economic Injury Disaster Loan Supporting Info (ODA Form P-019)
❑ Tax Authorization (IRS Form 4506-T) 20% Owners/GP/Affiliate
❑ Most recent 3 Years of Business Tax Return(s)
❑ Personal Financial Statement (SBA Form 413) 20% Owners/GP
❑ Schedule of Liabilities (SBA Form 2202)
❑ Other information that may be requested:
   ✓ Complete copy, including all schedules, of the most recent Federal
     income tax return for principals, general partners or managing member,
     and affiliates (see filing requirements for more information).
   ✓ If the most recent Federal income tax return has not been filed, a year-
     end profit-and-loss statement and balance sheet for that tax year
   ✓ A current year-to-date profit-and-loss statement
   ✓ Additional Filing Requirements (SBA Form 1368) providing monthly 24
     sales figures.
Personal Financial Statement (SBA Form 413D)




                                               25
For system and application help please contact
      SBA’s Economic Injury Disaster Loan
  Customer Service Center at (800) 659-2955
       disastercustomerservice@sba.gov
               District Office Contact Information




Ili R. Spahiu                                                 Robert H. Nelson
Lead Lender Relations Specialist                              District Director
U.S. Small Business Administration                            U.S. Small Business Administration
Massachusetts District Office                                 Massachusetts District Office
(617) 565-5569                                                (617) 565-5561
ili.Spahiu@sba.gov                                            Robert.Nelson@sba.gov


Dan Martiniello                                               Carlos Hernandez
Lender Relations Specialist                                   Lender Relations Specialist
U.S. Small Business Administration                            U.S. Small Business Administration
Massachusetts District Office                                 Massachusetts District Office

(617) 565-5577                                                (617) 565-5565
daniel.martiniello@sba.gov                                    carlos.hernandez@sba.gov




                             U.S. Small Business Administration Office of Capital Access
