PEDIATRIC CARE NETWORK


CARES Small Business Economic
Disaster Loan Program
March 31, 2020
Disclaimer: The information provided does not and is not intended to constitute legal advice. All information and content
provided is for general informational purposes only. The information provided may not constitute the most up-to-date legal or
other information as the rules and regulations are changing rapidly. Readers of this communication should contact their attorney
to obtain advice with respect to any particular matter.

This communication contains links to other third-party websites. Such links are provided for convenience only and the Pediatric
Care Network does not recommend or endorse the contents of the third-party sites. Use of, and access to, this information or any
of the links or resources contained within this communication does not create an attorney-client relationship between the
reader, user, or browser and the Pediatric Care Network or any of its contributors. All liability with respect to actions taken or
not taken based on the contents of this site are hereby expressly disclaimed. The content on this posting is provided "as is;" no
representations are made that the content is error-free.



A. General Overview
What is the CARES Act (Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act)?

  •   President Trump signed the CARES Act in the afternoon of March 27, 2020 after it passed the U.S. Senate and
      House.
  •   CARES Act 7(a) Business Loan Program:

       o    Made several changes to the Economic Injury Disaster Loan (EIDL) Program (which went into effect
            1/31/20); most notably reduction in requirements (See Loan Terms) and ability for local lenders to
            process without SBA approval.
       o    Provides small businesses (<500 employees) with working capital loans up to $10 million to help small
            businesses overcome the temporary loss of revenue.

  •   Funds must be used to retain workers/maintain payroll, pay mortgage interest, lease, and utility payments.
  •   Loan forgiveness and payment deferral if certain requirements are met (See Section D).

Borrower requirements

  •   The loan is needed to continue operations during the COVID-19 emergency.
  •   Funds will be used to retain workers and maintain payroll or make mortgage, lease, and utility payments.
  •   The applicant does not have any other application pending under this program for the same purpose.
  •   From February 15, 2020 until December 31, 2020, the applicant has not received duplicative amounts under
      this program.




                                                                                                                 CONFIDENTIAL


                                                                                    pcn@pediatriccarenetwork.org :: 1 of 5
Loan terms (key points)

  •     For most primary care practices: The loan amount (subject to the maximum identified below) is equal to:

         a) 2.5x average total monthly payroll costs incurred in 12 months prior to loan PLUS
         b) The outstanding amount of a loan made under the SBA’s Disaster Loan Program between January 31, 2020
              and the date on which such loan may be refinanced as part of this new program

  •     Maximum total loan (a+b) = $10 million
  •     Interest rates capped at 4%
  •     No collateral requirement
  •     No prepayment penalties
  •     Payments are deferred for 6 to 12 months
  •     Forgiveness Period9: Eight-week period beginning on the date of the loan. This is the period in which eligible
        expenses may be forgiven; however, the remainder of the loan may be used beyond the eight-week period
        and will be subject to the terms of the loan.


B. How to Apply8
Update: The U.S. Treasury released new guidance for borrowers and lenders on Tuesday March 31, 2020, including
a simplified application form and a target date of April 3, 2020, for accepting applications (April 10 for sole
proprietorships). This entire section has significant updates from the prior version.

Instructions

  1.     Complete the application and related forms from the SBA website (all linked in section 2 below).
  2.     Contact and apply with your local lender.
  3.     Be prepared to gather additional information that may be required by your lender.

1) Complete application form:
             Business Loan Application SBA Form 2483

         o       See more info here (U.S. Department of Treasury).
       Payroll calculation
Calculation of max loan amount: (12 months total payroll / 12) * 2.5
Date range: Use most recent 12 months prior to application

Payroll costs definition:

        Inclusions                                                           Exclusions
                                                                               •   Employee compensation exceeding $100,000 per
             •   Compensation to employees: Salary, wage, commissions,
                                                                                   year, prorated for the covered period
                 cash, etc.
                                                                               •   Certain federal taxes
             •   Paid leave
                                                                               •   Compensation to employees whose principal place
             •   Severance payments
                                                                                   of residence is outside of the U.S.
             •   Payment for group health benefits, including insurance
                                                                               •   Sick and family leave wages for which credit is
                 premiums
                                                                                   allowed under the Families First Act
             •   Retirement benefits
             •   State and local payroll taxes
             •   Compensation to sole proprietors or independent
                 contractors (including commission-based compensation) up
                 to $100,000 in 1 year3, prorated for the covered period



                                                                                                       CONFIDENTIAL


                                                                              pcn@pediatriccarenetwork.org :: 2 of 5
* Note that your lender may ultimately determine and/or verify your payroll calculation.


2) Submit your loan application to your local lender
Take your compiled loan application to your practice’s preferred vendor/current bank partner. Any private lender
that currently provides small business loans should be able to process. Ensure your lender knows you are applying
for a CARES Act Business Loan.

3) Prepare for potential forms that may be requested by your lender.
Note: These were required for the EIDL Program, but NOT part of PPP application. It may not be a good use of
time to complete all of this information, but beneficial to know how to access the following sources of
information:


            Complete copy of practice’s 2019 federal income tax return (use 2018 if 2019 has not been filed),
            including all schedules.

        o     If neither are available, include year-end profit-and-loss statement and balance sheet.


      For each owner:

                Tax Information Authorization Form (IRS Form 4506-T)
                Personal Financial Statement (SBA Form 413)
                Schedule of Liabilities including all fixed debts (SBA Form 2202)


      Other documents

        o     Current year-to-date profit-and-loss statement
        o     Monthly sales figures (SBA Form 1368)
        o     Most recent personal return for each owner


C. General loan requirements and documentation
When will funds be available for distribution?11

  •    Unknown as of March 31, 2020. If you need immediate assistance, you be able to obtain a $10,000 advance
       with the Economic Injury Disaster Loans and Advance program. As of March 31, 2020, the Pediatric Care
       Network has little guidance on how this loan will link to the PPP loan maximum.

What are qualified expenses?

  •    Payroll costs (same definition B.1; wages over $100,000 annualized are excluded)
  •    Group health care benefits for paid sick, medical, or family leave, and insurance premiums
  •    Salaries, commissions or similar compensations
  •    Payments of interest on mortgage obligations
  •    Rent or lease agreement payments
  •    Utilities
  •    Interest on any other debt obligations incurred before the covered period




                                                                                                            CONFIDENTIAL


                                                                                    pcn@pediatriccarenetwork.org :: 3 of 5
D. Forgiveness requirements
General Information

  •       Indebtedness is forgiven (and excluded from gross income) in an amount (not to exceed the principal amount
          of the loan) equal to the following costs incurred and payments made during the covered period:

          o    Payroll costs (not to exceed $100,000 of annualized compensation per employee)
          o    Payments of interest on any mortgage loan incurred prior to February 15, 2020
          o    Payment of rent on any lease in force prior to February 15, 2020
          o    Payment on any utility for which service began before February 15, 2020

  •       SBA has 30 days from enactment of CARES Act to provider borrow with guidance

Forgiveness reduction factors

  •       Forgiveness amounts will be reduced if the average full-time employee equivalent (FTEE) and/or wages are
          reduced during the covered period compared to a baseline period (see below)
  •       Formulas will be used to reduce forgiveness amounts but NOT to increase forgiveness amounts
  •       Any amount outstanding after considering the amount forgiven will be repayable over a term not to exceed
          10 years


 Full Time Employee Equivalent formula                        Wage reduction formula

 Avg # FTEE per month during the covered period)              Straight reduction for any amount in excess of 25% of
                                                              salary of any employee during the covered period
 Avg # FTEEs per month from 2/15/19 – 6/30/19
                                                              compared to the most recent full quarter prior to
 OR                                                           covered period

 Avg # FTEEs per month from 1/1/2020 – 2/29/20
                                                                 •   * Applies to any employee with annualized wages
      •    * Denominator time frame is borrower’s choice
                                                                     < $100K in 2019
      •    * No penalty for FTEE reduction made
                                                                 •   * No penalty for salary reduction if wages are
           between 2/15/20 and 4/26/20 if FTEE is
                                                                     raised back above threshold by 6/30/20
           rehired/made whole by 6/30/20



What needs to be tracked?

  •       Documentation verifying FTEE on payroll and their pay rates
  •       Documentation on covered costs/payments (e.g., documents verifying mortgage, rent, and utility payments)
  •       Certification from a business representative that the documentation is true and correct and that forgiveness
          amounts requested were used to retain employees and make other forgiveness-eligible payments
  •       Any other documentation the lender may require




                                                                                                       CONFIDENTIAL


                                                                               pcn@pediatriccarenetwork.org :: 4 of 5
E. Support and capabilities
     •   Contact Physician Relations (PhysicianRelations@childrenscolorado.org) for questions about this document or
         for further support if needed.
     •   SBA Disaster Loan Assistance Website: https://www.sba.gov/page/coronavirus-covid-19-small-business-
         guidance-loan-resources
     •   Children’s Colorado COVID-19 Healthcare Professionals: https://www.childrenscolorado.org/covid19




F. References
US Department of Treasury Assistance for Small Businesses 10

US Chamber of Commerce Coronavirus Emergency Loan Checklist 7

National Law Review Overview5

Steptoe Legal Overview

Latham & Watkins FAQs – Distinguishes between CARES Act 7(a) Loans and SBA EIDL Loans

SBA Coronavirus Small Business Guidance & Loan Resources 6

CARES Act Full Text




Version Updates
1   3.30.20: Covered period updated to state eight-week period from loan origination.

23.30.20: Contact your local SBA approved lender/bank for application submission. The Fed is targeting funds
availability by Friday April 3rd.

3   3.30.20: All sources indicate compensation up to $100K can be included.

4   3.30.20: Submission process still being finalized by SBA.

5   3.30.20: Added National Law Review source.

6   3.30.20: SBA Link updated.

7   3.31.20: Added U.S. Chamber Checklist link.

8   3.31.20: Modified the application process per new U.S. Treasury guidance.

9   3.31.20: Identified the forgiveness period as an 8-week period.

10   3.31.20: Added U.S. Dept. of Treasury Assistance resource.

11   3.31.20: Added link to EIDL Advance Loan program.




                                                                                                      CONFIDENTIAL


                                                                              pcn@pediatriccarenetwork.org :: 5 of 5
