                                                         Received Date                                                          Tiers 1 & 2
                                                                                                                          Loan Application

                                                                                                                                               RS 5025
Please type or print clearly
in blue or black ink                                                                                                                              (Rev. 02/19)
                                                                                               Retirement System [check one]
NYSLRS ID                                      Social Security Number        [last 4 digits}
                                                                                               Employees’ Retirement System (ERS)
                                               XXX-XX-                                         Police and Fire’ Retirement System (PFRS)
 Please see pages 4 and 5 for instructions on completing this form. If you are not sure you are eligible for a loan, please call us toll-free at (866) 805-
 0990 or (518) 474-7736 in the Albany, New York area.
 You must answer all questions in ink and the application must be signed and notarized, or it will be rejected. Please note that once your loan
 check has been issued, your loan is final. Your loan check cannot be returned and you will not be eligible to secure another loan during the
 following 90 day period. If you decide you no longer want a loan after your check has been issued, you may cash the loan check you received
 and remit payment in full directly to the Retirement System, including any additional interest and insurance that may have accumulated.
 1) Personal Information

 Name: (First, Middle Initial, Last)


 Street Address: (Including Street, City, State and Zip Code)


 Home Phone:                                         Work/Cell Phone:                                    Extension:

 2) Required Information- Must be completed (See page 4 for instructions)

 If you participate in another retirement plan offered through your employer (such as a 457 deferred compensation plan, 403-a
 qualified annuity plan, 403-b tax sheltered annuity plan or 401 qualified trust), and have an existing loan through that plan, you
 must disclose this information or this loan application will be rejected. If you have memberships in both PFRS and ERS, and have
 an existing loan in one System at the time you apply for a loan in the second, you do not have to include this information below. The
 balances required will be included automatically when you apply for your loan. The Internal Revenue Code requires us to consider
 these loan balances when we calculate the taxability of a loan from our System. Note that this may result in significant tax
 consequences on your loan from this System. (See tax information on page 6.)

 A.   Do you have an outstanding loan balance with your current employer through any of the retirement plans noted above?
            No- Go to 3

            Yes- You must answer the following (If you have loan balances outstanding with more than one employer retirement
 plan, please provide the combined total of these balances in the section below):

 B.     How much money do you currently have invested in the retirement plan(s) from which your loan(s) was issued?

 C.     What is your current total balance outstanding on your plan loan(s)?

 D.     In the past 12 months, what was your highest loan balance through this plan(s)?

 See pages 4 and 5 for important information and instructions. Before choosing a loan type, call our automated information phone line toll-
 free at (866) 805-0990 or (518) 474-7736 in the Albany, New York area. Once you access the loan menu, you can receive specific information
 relating to your account for multiple and refinanced loans.

 3) Loan Type- You must select ONLY ONE of the following or we cannot accept your application.

 A.       Loan Type 1- Check here if you want a loan and do not have an existing loan with us.

 B.     Loan Type 2- (This is called a multiple loan.) Check here if you already have a loan with us and want to take another loan.
 The single repayment amount for multiple loans is higher than a single repayment on a refinanced loan.
 C.       Loan Type 3- (This is called a refinanced loan.) Check here if you already have a loan with us and want to add to it.
 WARNING! The taxable amount for a refinanced loan will always be greater than for a multiple loan, unless the entire amount
 of the refinanced loan is non-taxable. To avoid severe tax consequences, verify your taxable amount using our automated information
 line.
              I am aware of the possible tax consequences of taking a refinanced loan and authorize the Retirement System to
 process my application as indicated.


 RS 5025 (Rev. 02/19) Page 1 of 6

                                                    *02/19RS5025*
4) Loan Amount

A.   I Am Applying For (choose only one):
          I.   A maximum NON-TAXABLE loan               II.    A loan of: $                          III.   A maximum loan

B.   Loan Repayment Amount (per pay period)                           If you want to pay higher than the minimum required, and choose
         Minimum OR Higher than Minimum $                             Loan Type 2 (multiple loans), your payroll loan deduction will
                                                                      remain the same until all loans are paid or a new loan is taken.

C.   U.S. Citizenship Status (choose one only):          Citizen*        Resident Alien*           Non-Resident Alien**

If you are a U.S. Citizen or Resident Alien: This form will be used as a substitute for the W-9 tax form. By completing and signing
this form you are agreeing to the certification statements outlined below.
Under penalty or perjury, I certify that:
1. The number shown on this form is my correct taxpayer identification number (or I am writing for a number to be issued
      to me); and
2. I am not subject to backup withholding because: (a) I am exempt from back withholdings; or (b) I have not been notified
      by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) I am subject to backup withholding as a result of a failure to report all interest or
      dividends; or (c) the IRS has notified me I am no longer subject to backup withholding (You must cross out item 2 if you
      have been notified by the IRS you are currently subject to backup withholding because you failed to report all interest
      or dividends on your tax return), and
3. I am a U.S. Citizen or other U.S. person (defined in the instructions); and
4. The FATCA code(s) entered on this form (if any) indicating that I am exempt from FATCA reporting is correct. (Note: This
      item does not apply for the loan application.)

**If you are a Non-resident Alien: You must submit a W-8BEN tax form with your loan application. Please refer to the instructions
section for directions to obtain this form. Loan applications received without a W-8BEN tax form will be rejected. Federal Taxes must
be withheld for Non-Resident Aliens (skip section 4D).

D.   Federal Tax Withheld- If your loan is taxable, Federal Law requires us to withhold 10 percent of the taxable amount of this loan,
     unless you check the box below (you may incur additional taxes and/or penalties if your withholding is insufficient). Federal
     withholding can significantly reduce the loan amount payable to you.

         Do not deduct 10 percent withholding tax

         Note: If you are a U.S. Citizen or Resident Alien living outside of the United States, we are required to deduct 10 percent
               federal withholding tax from your loan.
         Note: If you are a Non-Resident Alien, we are required to deduct withholding from your loan in accordance with the tax
               treaty between the United States and your country. In many instances, the amount withheld will exceed 10 percent
               and will result in the issuance of a loan check in an amount considerably less than the loan you are issued.
5) Payroll Information

A. Employer (Repayments will only be deducted from the payroll of your primary employer)

B. Annual Salary


C. Payroll Frequency (Check one box only)
             Weekly      Bi-Weekly        Semi-Monthly              Monthly      Quarterly         Semi-Annual       Annual

D. Employment Term (Check one box only)
                 I am a 12-Month Employee              I am a 10-Month Employee              I am a Seasonal Employee




RS 5025 (Rev. 02/19) Page 2 of 6
6) TO THE COMPTROLLER OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK:
I am applying for a loan from the Retirement System as shown above. I understand that all payments representing the proceeds of
this loan are final and cannot be returned for cancellation. I agree to deductions being taken from my salary for each future payroll
period until the total amount due, including interest, is repaid. I agree that my annuity savings account be charged with the required
loan insurance premiums until the loan is repaid. I agree that the rate of interest on this loan shall be fixed by the Comptroller as
provided for in the Retirement and Social Security Law. I certify that the information on my application is true and complete to the
best of my knowledge. I further certify that I am aware that any false statements I knowingly make or permit to be made on this or any
record of the retirement system constitutes a crime punishable by potential incarceration and other sanctions.
The Internal Revenue Service does not require your consent to any provision of this document other than the certifications
required to avoid backup withholding.


                                _________________________________________________________
                                   Signature (must be signed in ink and acknowledged by a notary)



7) ACKNOWLEDGEMENT TO BE COMPLETED BY A NOTARY PUBLIC

State of _______________ County of __________________ On the _____ day of _________________ in the

year ________ before me, the undersigned, personally appeared ___________________________________,
personally known to me or proved to me on the basis of satisfactory evidence to be the individual(s) whose name(s) is (are) subscribed
to the within instrument and acknowledged to me that he/she/they executed the same in his/her/their capacity(ies), and that by
his/her/their signature(s) on the instrument, the individual(s), or the person upon behalf of which the individual(s) acted, executed the
instrument.




                                                                             NOTARY PUBLIC (Please sign and affix stamp)




  Mail completed form to:
                                           New York State and Local Retirement System
                                                 110 State Street-Mail Drop 5-9
                                                    Albany, NY 12244-0001




PERSONAL PRIVACY PROTECTION LAW
The Retirement System is required by law to maintain records to determine eligibility for and calculate benefits. Failure to provide
information may interfere with the timely payment of benefits. The System may be required to provide certain information to
participating employers. The official responsible for record maintenance is the Director of Member and Employer Services, NYS and
Local Retirement System, Albany, NY 12244; call toll-free at 1-866-805-0990 or 518-474-7736 in the Albany Area.

*SOCIAL SECURITY DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENT
In accordance with the Federal Privacy Act of 1974, you are hereby advised that disclosure of your Social Security account number is
mandatory pursuant to Sections 11, 34, 311 and 334 of the Retirement and Social Security Law. The number will be used in
identifying retirement records and in the administration of the Retirement System.

BANKRUPTCY INFORMATION
A loan from the Retirement System based on a member’s contributions is not a debt and, therefore, is not dischargeable in
bankruptcy.




RS 5025 (Rev. 02/19) Page 3 of 6
 Instructions and Information For Filling Out Loan Application

 1) Personal Information
 Instructions
 A. Complete the entire section.

 2) Required Information– Must be Completed
 General Information

 •  Your employer is a participating employer in The New York State & Local Retirement System (System). The System is a
    Section 401(a) qualified trust. In addition to membership in the System, your employer may offer other types of
    retirement plans. Before we can issue a loan to you, the Internal Revenue Service requires us to inquire whether you
    have outstanding loans in other retirement plans offered by your employer. For this purpose, include loans from plans
    sponsored by the employer upon which your System membership is based.
 Loans from private sector employer plans or retirement accounts are not included.
 Two common employer-sponsored retirement savings plans are:
 • Section 457, a deferred compensation plan, is a voluntary supplemental retirement savings plan sponsored by your current
    employer. It enables public employees to save a portion of their gross pay before Federal and State income taxes are deducted.
 • Section 403(b), a tax sheltered annuity plan, is an employer-sponsored retirement savings program. By law, participation is
    limited to employees of public educational organizations and certain nonprofit organizations.
 Other, less common employer-sponsored retirement savings plans are:
 • Section 403(a) qualified annuity
 • Section 401 qualified trusts

 3) Loan Type
 General Information
 Choose only one type of loan. If you do not check any of the boxes, or if you choose more than one type of loan, your application
 will be rejected.
 Instructions
 A. Check Loan Type 1 only if you do not have an existing loan from us and are requesting one.
 B. Loan Type 2 (multiple loan) allows you to take another, separate loan from us. Multiple loans have separate five year due dates
       on which the minimum payments are calculated. These minimum payments are then added together for a total minimum
       payment. That is why if you take another loan under this option, you will have a higher minimum payment than if you refinance.
       However, the payments for all loans will be combined so you only have one payroll deduction.
 C. Loan Type 3 (refinanced loan) allows you to add the new loan amount to your existing loan balance and refinance the entire
       amount as one loan instead of taking another, separate loan. Minimum repayment amounts for refinanced loans are less than
       multiple loans because we add on the amount you are currently requesting to your existing loan. We then refinance the total
       amount for another five years. Because of the increased taxable amount for a refinanced loan, Federal withholding can
       significantly reduce the loan amount payable to you.

 4) Loan Amount
 General Information
 • There are various tax thresholds and circumstances that determine when a loan is taxable and what portion of a loan is taxable.
    Before choosing a taxable or non-taxable loan, you should call our automated information line to get specific information
    regarding the amount you want to borrow.
 • The maximum non-taxable loan amount will be less for a refinanced loan (Loan Type 3) than for a multiple loan (Loan Type 2),
    unless the entire amount of the refinanced loan is non-taxable.
 • The taxable amount for a refinanced loan (Type 3) will always be more than if you take a multiple loan (Loan Type 2), unless the
    entire amount of the refinanced loan is non-taxable.
 • When choosing the Loan Repayment Amount, you can choose either to repay the minimum amount or a higher than minimum
    amount each pay period. The minimum amount will be based on your payroll frequency and how much you must repay each
    payroll period based on a five-year repayment plan. We will calculate what the minimum repayment is if you choose this option.
 • If you select minimum payment and have multiple loans, your payroll deduction will equal the total of the minimum payments for
    each loan. After your oldest loan is repaid, your payroll deduction will be reduced by the amount you had been paying on that
    loan.
 Definition of a U.S. person. For federal tax purposes, you are considered a U.S. person if you are:
  An individual who is a U.S. citizen or U.S. resident alien;
  A partnership, corporation, company, or association created or organized in the United States or under the laws of the United
    States;
  An estate (other than a foreign estate); or
  A domestic trust (as defined in Regulations section 301.7701-7)
 • If you are a U.S. Citizen: This form will be used as a substitute for the W-9 tax form. You must complete this form in order to
    document your U.S. citizenship status for tax withholding and information reporting purposes.
 • If you are a U.S. Citizen and you have been notified by the IRS that you are currently subject to backup withholding
    because you have failed to report all interest and dividends on your tax return, you must cross out item 2 in section 4C above.
    For real estate transactions, item 2 does not apply. For mortgage interest paid, acquisition or abandonment of secured property,
    cancellation of debt, contributions to an individual retirement arrangement (IRA), and generally, payments other than interest and
    dividends, you are not required to sign the certification, but you must provide your correct TIN (Tax Identification Number).


RS 5025 (Rev. 02/19) Page 4 of 6
 •   If you are a Non-Resident Alien: You must submit a W-8BEN tax form along with your loan application in order to document your
     U.S. citizenship status for tax withholding and information reporting purposes. You can access and print this form from the IRS
     web site at: https://www.irs.gov/pub/irs-pdf/fw8ben.pdf. If you do not submit a W-8BEN tax form with your loan application, your
     application will be rejected.
 Instructions
 A. Check one box to tell us how much you want to borrow. You have three choices:
            i.    A loan for the maximum non-taxable amount we can provide you by law (Box i)
            ii.   A specific loan amount, up to the maximum amount available (Box ii). You must enter the amount you want to borrow.
            iii.  A loan for the maximum amount we can provide you by law (a portion of this may be taxable) (Box iii)
 B. You may repay more than the minimum amount, if you wish. Indicate the exact amount you want to repay each pay period. If you
       want to repay more than the minimum amount and are requesting Loan Type 2 (multiple loans), your payroll loan deduction will
       remain the same until all loans are paid, a new loan is taken, or you request in writing that your payment be changed to the
       minimum amount due.
 C. U.S. Citizenship Status - Check one box to indicate whether you are a Citizen, Resident Alien or Non-Resident Alien. If you are a
       U.S. Citizen or Resident Alien, your loan application will be used as a substitute for the W-9 tax form. By completing and signing
       this form, you are agreeing to the certification statements outlined in Section 4C. If you are a Non-Resident Alien, you must
       submit a W-8BEN tax form with your loan application. Loan applications received without a W-8BEN tax form will be rejected.
 D. Federal Tax Withheld – Federal law requires us to withhold Federal tax at a rate of 10 percent of the taxable amount of the loan
       unless you elect not to have this automatic withholding apply. Federal withholding can significantly reduce the loan amount
       payable to you.

 5) Payroll Information
 Instructions
 A. Give us your employer’s full name so we can notify them to take loan deductions.
 B. Provide your gross annual salary.
 C. To determine your loan repayment amount, we need to know how often you are paid (check one box only).
 D. Tell us what your term of employment is (check one box only).

 6) Signature —We cannot accept your loan application unless it is signed.



 7) Notary Public Acknowledgement — The application must be notarized or it will be rejected.


 ALL TIER 1 AND TIER 2 LOANS ARE SUBJECT TO THE FOLLOWING:
 • You must be in active service with the State or a participating employer and have credit for at least one year of member service.
   Members on a leave of absence are not considered to be in active service. If you are retiring, your loan application must be
   received before your date of retirement for it to be processed.
 • Only one loan may be granted every 90 days.
 • A loan may not be granted for less than $25.
 • The maximum loan permitted under law is 75 percent of the amount you have on deposit in your contribution account, less any
   outstanding loan balance. If the requested loan amount exceeds the legal limit, your application will be processed for the
   maximum amount permitted.
 • The minimum repayments must be in an amount sufficient to repay the loan within five years and no less than $3.00 if paid
   weekly, $5.00 if bi-weekly or semi-monthly, or $10.00 if monthly. Loan repayments are in even dollar amounts and must be paid
   through payroll deductions. If you leave the payroll, or you are on an authorized leave of absence, please call us for information on
   repaying your loan. If you do not make payments on your loan quarterly or complete payment within five years of the date the loan
   is issued, whichever comes first, you loan will be in default. At the time a default occurs, the entire amount due on your loan,
   minus any previous taxed portion, must be reported to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) as a lump sum distribution from a
   qualified plan. However, the balance on a defaulted loan is still owed, and interest and insurance charges continue to
   accrue until the balance is paid in full. If any of your loans are in default, you will be unable to borrow from us in the future until
   the entire balance on all loans in default has been repaid. If you are called to active military duty, special rules apply. Please
   contact our Call Center.
 • WARNING! If you retire or withdraw from the Retirement System and have an outstanding loan on the effective date of your
   retirement or withdrawal, part of all of the loan balance may constitute taxable funds which were credited to your account and,
   therefore, would be subject to Federal income tax in the year in which you retire or withdraw, information regarding the amount will
   be furnished to you at that time.
 • Interest is charged on loans at the rate of 5 percent per annum, based on the outstanding balance at the beginning of each month.
 • Loans are fully insured against death of a member prior to retirement. There is no insurance for the first 30 days. Premiums to
   cover the cost of this insurance are based on the amount of the loan and your age, and are charged against your contribution
   balance at the end of the year. Loan insurance does not cover you if you become disabled or unemployed.




RS 5025 (Rev. 02/19) Page 5 of 6
                                                 IMPORTANT BENEFIT INFORMATION
 If you have an outstanding loan balance at the time of your retirement, your benefit will be permanently reduced unless, at some
 point after retirement, you elect to submit payment in full on your loan(s) in one lump sum. If you opt to payoff your loan balance,
 your pension will be recalculated and the previous reduction in benefits will not apply moving forward.

 EMPLOYEE’S RETIREMENT SYSTEM

                                                    Service Retirement Reductions

 Age at Retirement                     55             60              62             65              70

 Annual Reduction                   $77.77           $82.08          $84.27         $88.26          $97.35




 POLICE & FIRE RETIREMENT SYSTEM
                                                    Service Retirement Reductions

 Age at Retirement                     45             50              55             60              62             65

 Annual Reduction                     $71.21         $73.56          $77.05         $81.95         $84.41          $88.84




 IMPORTANT FEDERAL TAX INFORMATION
 Existing loans with a deferred compensation or tax sheltered annuity plan: If you have an existing loan from one of these
 plans, both the current loan balance and the current contribution balance will be taken into account when calculating the taxability of
 the loan from this system.
 1. Loans over $50,000: No outstanding loan when new loan granted: Loans that exceed $50,000 must be reported to the IRS as a
      distribution from a qualified plan to the extent that the loan exceeds $50,000, less the highest outstanding loan balance in the
      past 12 months. Refinanced Loan: Refinanced loans that cause the outstanding loan balance at the time the new loan is granted
      (old balance) when added to there placement loan (old balance plus the new loan amount) to exceed $50,000, less the
      difference between the highest total outstanding balance during the past year and the ‘old balance,’ must be reported to the IRS
      as a distribution from a qualified plan to the extent that the loan exceeds this amount. Multiple Loans: Loans that cause the loan
      account (total of all outstanding loans plus the new loan) to exceed $50,000, less the difference between the highest total
      outstanding balance during the past year and the total old balance (total of all outstanding loans prior to new loan), must be
      reported to the IRS as a distribution from a qualified plan to the extent that the loan account exceeds this amount. Any portion of
      the distribution amount that cannot be offset by your after-tax contribution will be reported to the IRS as ordinary income.
 2. Loans under $50,000: If there is no outstanding loan or a separate multiple loan is granted, and the new loan results in the total
      ‘outstanding balance’ being more than the greater of (a) $10,000 or (b) 50 percent of the present value of your accrued non-
      forfeitable benefit, the amount over that figure will be reported to the IRS as ordinary income for the current year. If you are not
      vested, the present value of your accrued non-forfeitable benefit is equal to your contribution balance. If you are vested, the
      present value of your accrued non-forfeitable benefit is an actuarially determined amount. For refinanced loans, the ‘outstanding
      balance’ is the total of both the loan balance at the time the new loan is granted and the refinanced loan amount (which includes
      the loan balance at the time the new loan is granted).
 3. If you go off the payroll, or your loan payments stop prematurely, contact the Call Center to make arrangements to repay your
      loan directly. If you do not make payments on your loan at least once every three months, or do not complete repayment within
      five years from the date the loan is issued, your loan will default. When a loan defaults, the outstanding balance, minus any
      previously taxed amount, must be reported to the IRS as ordinary income.
 4. If you are under age 59½ at the time any part of your loan becomes reportable, you may be subject to an additional 10 percent
      penalty tax. The Federal Internal Revenue Code imposes this penalty tax on amounts deemed to be a distribution prior to your
      actual retirement




RS 5025 (Rev. 02/19) Page 6 of 6
