	  




                                                                      Volunteer	  Application	  Form	  
	  
                                Please	  mail	  completed	  Volunteer	  Application,	  Disclosure,	  and	  Oath	  of	  Declaration	  
                                                                    by	  February	  21,	  2017	  to:	  
                                                         HawaiiUSA	  FCU	  • Attn:	  Board	  of	  Directors	  
                                                          1226	  College	  Walk	  •Honolulu,	  HI	  96817	  
	  
              Name:	                                                                                                        Member	  Number(last	  3	  digits):	  

              Address:	  

              Home	  Phone	  Number:	  

              Work	  Phone	  Number:	  

              Cell	  Phone	  Number:	  

              Email	  Address:	  

              Employer:	  

	  
              Please	  indicate	  which	  committee(s)	  you	  are	  interested	  in	  serving	  on	  as	  a	  volunteer.	  
              Indicate	  committee(s)	  in	  order	  of	  preference	  (1st	   choice	  =1,	  2nd	   choice=2,	  3rd	   choice=3)	  
	  
       	                 ANNUAL	  MEETING	  &	  CELEBRATION	  –	  Plans	  and	  implements	  the	  Annual	  Meeting	  and	  Celebration.	  

       	                 GOLF	  TOURNAMENT	  –	  Plans	  and	  coordinates	  the	  annual	  golf	  tournament	  for	  credit	  union	  members	  and	  guests	  with	  
                          proceeds	  benefiting	  Hawaii’s	  schools	  and/or	  educators.	  

       	                 GOVERNANCE	  –	  Provides,	  monitors,	  and	  evaluates	  the	  Boards’	  performance	  for	  the	  purpose	  of	  ensuring	  a	  highly	  effective	  
                          governing	  body.	  

       	                 LOAN	  POLICY	  &	  REVIEW	  –	  Provides	  general	  supervision	  of	  the	  performance	  of	  HawaiiUSA	  FCU	  in	  the	  loans	  it	  makes.	  

       	                 NOMINATIONS,	  ELECTIONS	  &	  VOLUNTEER	  PROGRAMS	  –	  Identifies,	  recruits,	  and	  provides	  orientation	  to	  potential	  
                          Board	  and	  Volunteer	  Board	  Committee	  Members	  with	  a	  range	  and	  variety	  of	  strengths	  and	  interests,	  including	  establishing	  
                          and	  overseeing	  the	  rules	  and	  procedures	  regarding	  nominees,	  ballots,	  and	  election.	  

       	                 SCHOLARSHIP	  –	  Implements	  the	  annual	  HawaiiUSA	  FCU	  Scholarship	  Program,	  including	  procedures	  for	  the	  application	  
                          and	  selection	  of	  recipients.	  

       	                 WORKFORCE	  (PERSONNEL)	  –	  Monitors	  and	  provides	  input	  on	  areas	  that	  impact	  compensation,	  benefits,	  employee	  
                          morale	  and	  welfare,	  and	  retirement	  programs	  and	  helps	  to	  promote	  and	  exemplify	  the	  credit	  union’s	  core	  values	  and	  
                          diversity	  in	  the	  workplace.	  
Briefly describe why you would like to serve as a volunteer.




Briefly describe any previous education, work-related, and/or volunteer experiences/skills that you would
bring to the credit union as a volunteer.




I have read, understand and agree to abide by HawaiiUSA’s Volunteer Code of Conduct. I am a member in good
standing. I possess a personal history of reputable and responsible conduct; I authorize HawaiiUSA to verify my past
conduct and bondability.




Signature                                                                               Date
                 VOLUNTEER CODE OF CONDUCT
This Code of Conduct will govern the activity of all volunteers of the HawaiiUSA Federal
Credit Union (HawaiiUSA FCU). It is a general policy requiring volunteers to exercise the
highest standard of care in the fulfillment of their duties through sound judgement and
integrity.

A.     Standards of Conduct
              HawaiiUSA FCU is a member-owned, non-profit cooperative thrift institution.
       The proper management of the members' assets is the fiduciary responsibility of the
       employees, directors, committee members and volunteers, which therefore requires
       these custodians to exemplify the highest standards of ethical, moral and personal
       conduct at all times as well as to strictly uphold the laws, by-laws, rules, policies and
       regulations relating to the operation of the credit union.

       1.     All actions shall be consistent with the goals of the credit union.

       2.     Volunteers shall exhibit loyalty to the credit union at all times and must avoid
              conduct that may injure or harm the credit union's reputation in the
              community, including but not limited to criminal conduct.

       3.     Volunteers shall keep in strict confidence information regarding each member
              and the business of the credit union. Confidential and proprietary information
              shall not be released unless required by law.

       4.     Volunteers shall at all times conduct themselves in a moral, decent and legal
              manner and exercise honesty in the performance of their duties.

       5.     Volunteers shall not publicly disparage the credit union or campaign against
              an action of the Board or Supervisory Committee; discussion by volunteers of
              business decisions shall be performed at a Board or Committee level, not with
              the public.

       6.     Volunteers shall not participate in the credit union’s deliberation on or
              attempt to affect the outcome of any matter that involves the specific
              personal interest of a volunteer and his/her family members;* and shall keep
              confidential any action or decision to which the volunteer may become privy
              regarding family members or other contacts.

       7.     Volunteers shall engage in discussion with other volunteers in a civil and
              business-like manner.

B.   Conflicts of Interest
               To maintain the highest standards of conduct, volunteers should avoid
      conflicts of interest and not use their positions directly or indirectly for private gain,

                                               1                          VOLUNTEER CODE OF CONDUCT – 05/16
     to advance personal interest, or to obtain special benefits or treatment for
     themselves, their families*, or other persons.

     1.     Outside business interests should be treated with extreme caution. Any
            business, employment, or financial interest of a Volunteer in a vendor of or
            counterparty to the credit union should be disclosed to the Board of
            Directors.

     2.     Active licenses, such as real estate sales, insurance sales, or securities
            trading should be disclosed to HawaiiUSA FCU.

           Questions under this paragraph shall be referred to the Supervisory
     committee for clarification.

C.   Prohibited Conduct

     1.     Fees
            Acceptance of personal fees or commissions for performing credit union
     duties is prohibited. Exception: This prohibition does not apply to employees who
     are normally compensated on a commission or fee-for-service basis. Only a specified
     number of employees may be Volunteers, per the Bylaws. Volunteers will also not
     accept fees, commissions, or gifts in violation of paragraph 4 below.

     2.     Signatures**
            Volunteers may not sign on a member's account or otherwise represent a
     member other than as an officer of a charitable or volunteer organization, as a joint
     account holder, or as a parent or legal guardian of minor children. This paragraph
     shall not be interpreted to prohibit spouses or other family members acting under a
     valid power of attorney.

     3.     Relationship to Other Financial Institutions
            Volunteers are not allowed to serve as an employee, consultant, committee
     member, officer or director of another credit union, commercial bank, savings bank,
     trust company, savings and loan association, industrial bank, and holding company
     of a savings and loan bank, except as disclosed to and approved by the Board of
     Directors. Volunteers are not allowed to own any financial interest, through stocks or
     otherwise, in any of the above listed financial institutions which would interfere with
     the duties of his or her position with the credit union; interference with duties, for
     the purposes of this paragraph, includes but is not limited to ownership of a
     controlling interest in a direct competitor of the credit union.

     4.      Gifts
             Volunteers or their family members may not solicit or accept from nor give
     gifts, services or other items of value to anyone doing business or seeking to do
     business with this credit union.



                                            2                         VOLUNTEER CODE OF CONDUCT – 05/16
        a. Meals or hospitality expenses of reasonable value which will not influence
the performance of their duties may be accepted or provided by authorized
volunteers in the course of establishing or sustaining necessary business
relationships, and provided that the expenses would be paid for by the credit union
if not paid for by the other party as a reasonable business expense.
        b. Promotional or advertising material of reasonable value may be accepted,
such as pens, pencils, note pads, key chains, calendars, or similar items.
        c. Discounts or rebates on merchandise or services that do not exceed those
available to other members may be accepted.
        d. Gifts based on obvious family or personal relationship may be accepted
where the circumstances are clear that the relationship and not the business of this
credit union was the motivating factor, or gifts of a reasonable value (not above
$200) that are related to commonly recognized events or occasions, such as a
promotion, new job, wedding, retirement, holiday, or birth.
        If a Volunteer is offered or receives a gift, services, hospitality, or other items
of value valued above $200, the Volunteer shall disclose that fact to the CEO and
Supervisory Committee. The CEO or his designee shall maintain a written record of
reported gifts

5.      Borrowing/Lending**
        Volunteers are prohibited from borrowing/lending personal money from/to
employees, associates and members of the HawaiiUSA FCU. This provision does not
apply to family relationships.*
        The provisions of this policy related to gifts and other benefits do not prohibit
Volunteers accepting loans from banks or financial institutions on customary terms
to finance proper and usual activities of the Volunteer.

6.     Solicitations
       Volunteers are prohibited from solicitation activities on the credit union
premises unless such has been approved by the Board of Directors. Solicitations of
signatures or votes for office at the credit union are governed by any campaign rules
enacted by the Board of Directors.

7.    Bequests and Legacies**
      Volunteers are prohibited from accepting bequests and legacies under a Will
or Trust instrument from members. This provision does not apply when such
bequests and legacies originate from family relationships.*

8.      Beneficiary (Trust) Appointments**
        Volunteers are prohibited from accepting appointment as a personal
representative, executor, administrator, guardian, trustee of a member, or any
similar fiduciary capacity.
        This provision does not apply to appointments resulting from family
relationships when the appointment is only to assist in family matters and provided
that the duties required will not interfere with the performance of their duties to
HawaiiUSA FCU.


                                         3                          VOLUNTEER CODE OF CONDUCT – 05/16
       9.      Corporate Opportunities
               Volunteers will not compete with the credit union. If a volunteer is presented
       with a business opportunity which is within the credit union’s business model, the
       volunteer will present the opportunity to the credit union and request action
       regarding the request, which the Board of Directors will review and elect to pursue
       or not to pursue at their next regular Board meeting after being presented with
       complete information regarding the opportunity. If the Board of Directors elects not
       to pursue, or formally abandons pursuit of, the opportunity, the presenting volunteer
       may pursue such opportunity. Examples of corporate opportunities include: purchase
       or lease of potential branch locations; sale of credit union methods, forms, or
       policies to other financial institutions; lending opportunities; investment in Credit
       Union Service Organizations, as defined under NCUA rules.

D.     Volunteer Application Form***

       1.    The Volunteer Application Form must be filed by all volunteers before serving
             on a committee and annually thereafter. A new Disclosure Form must be filed
             at any time changes occur to alter the conditions under which the previous
             form was filed.

E.     Dishonest or fraudulent acts past, present & future are prohibited

F.     Violation/Penalty
               All alleged violations of this Code of Conduct may be reported to any member
       of the Board of Directors, the President and CEO or the head of the human
       resources department who shall refer the matter to the Supervisory Committee for
       investigation and determination.
               Any person aggrieved by the action of the Supervisory Committee may
       appeal to the Code of Conduct Review Committee. This committee shall be made up
       of the members of the Supervisory Committee, four members of the Board of
       Directors and the President and CEO.
               All violations shall be disposed of in the following manner:

       1.     Any violation of the Code of Conduct by a volunteer shall be referred to the
              Supervisory Committee for disposition.

* For purposes of this policy, "family" or "family relationship" includes any family
relationship regardless of the place of residence or means of support.

** Volunteers may also submit written justification and seek specific case-by-case exception
approval from the Board of Directors when special circumstances require exemption from
this prohibited conduct.

*** The Volunteer Application Form shall be filed with and maintained by the Board
Executive Secretary

                                              4                         VOLUNTEER CODE OF CONDUCT – 05/16
                              DISCLOSURE FORM

Please type or print

Name                                                         Date

Address



HawaiiUSA FCU Member Number (Last 3 digits)

Director ☐                                   Committee Member ☐

                            Complete #1 and #2 as applicable



1.    I hereby certify that I am not an employee, consultant, committee member,
      officer, or director of any other financial institution nor have a financial interest
      (stocks or otherwise) in such institutions which would interfere with my duties with
      this credit union.


       Signature                                                 Date




2.    List active licenses (real estate, insurance, securities trading, etc.)

          Type of License                              Company Name




                                               5                           VOLUNTEER CODE OF CONDUCT – 05/16
                        OATH OF DECLARATION


                                                            Effective Date:       /       /




      I,                                   (print full name), have read and understand

the aforementioned V o l u n t e e r Code of Conduct set forth by the HawaiiUSA

Federal Credit Union.       I accept the consequences which may arise if this Oath of

Declaration is violated. I also acknowledge my responsibility as an employee, director,

or committee member, to engage in safe and sound financial practices under the

guidelines of the National Credit Union Administration's Rules and Regulations and the

Federal Credit Union Act.




Signature                                            Date




                                            6                         VOLUNTEER CODE OF CONDUCT – 05/16
